# "The Universe from Nothing" by Lawrence Krauss

***Completed Reading February 19th 2016***

This books explains as the title explains. I had a hard time grasping what this book focused around. Here's what I mean: Try to think about 'nothing' as empty space (no particles, no matter, no atoms).

At the beginning of our universe (aka. The Big Bang), empty space still has energy. When empty space inflates far enough, the energy starts to create particles and anti-particles for a split instant, and annihilate each other in the process. Now, for every particle, there is an anti-particle to cancel it out, but at some point (12-14 billion years ago), a particle didn't have an anti-particle. In fact, 1 out of every 1 billion particles didn't have an anti-particle.

With empty space expanding and particles existing, the universe started to form. At some point, an eruption happened where universes started to form from a 10 billion Kelvin temperature eruption.

As time goes on our universes starts to move further and further apart at the speed of light. To the point that currently today using the Hubble telescope, we can see other universes 100 million light years away.

From this, our universes with 100 billion other universes started to form. From this, our universe started to create elements (helium, hydrogen, lithium) which is what stars are made of.

And the beauty of it is that we're all made of those same elements that is around our universe.

This theory is still in the very early stages, but gets us closer to understanding how our universe and other universes originated from.

From this, come elements, compound elements, molecular structure, living beings, sentient beings, and life as we know it today.

I find this book very informative and makes me interested in cosmology and quantum physics as a whole.

We are in a very special time with very special abilities. For us to live in this very fortunate time for a universe to sustain life on the earth is truly beautiful. There is no better beauty in the world than realizing we have beaten the odds to even be alive as a species and getting the opportunity to discover the unknown. This is truly miraculous and I only hope more people get inspired by the fact that our existence is special and beautiful.
