# "Awaken The Giant Within" by Anthony Robbins

***Completed Reading April 24th 2016***

Let me start with the impact this book can have on people's lives. Most people go through life on auto-pilot and don't even realize it. Their leaves in the wind of life that gushes them in all types of directions without a particular place to go. Tony explains how you can take control of YOUR life by YOUR decisions and YOUR emotional control.

Tony talks about YOUR MASTER SYSTEM. In essence, it's 5 factors that determine a person's identity and origin of most of their decisions:

1. State of mind
2. Questions/Evalutions of yourself and situations
3. Pains/Pleasures in life
4. Your beliefs
5. Your past references

This book made me realize how much I've been doing throughout my life and how my past made me the person I am today. It also made me realize that I can control how my life turns out and not to lose my composure for situations out of my control. Goals I want to accomplish, figuring out how I've come so far from where I've been 5 years ago, and learning more about myself came to frution with the guidance of this novel.

I'm also learned to be grateful for what I have in my life and be happy to just wake up every morning and be excited about improving, learning, and connecting with people. I'm even more grateful to have the greatest girlfriend and lover Asia Thomas in my life right now. Reading this book made me think of how lucky and fortunate of a man I am to have this wonderful woman in my life.

To wrap this up, I feel like every single person in the world should have the opportunity to read this book. Even people who are truly happy can take something of value from reading this book. This book can make people realize that true happiness and success comes from what you make of life, not what life can make for you!
