# "The Extended Phenotype" by Richard Dawkins

***Completed Reading July 6th 2016***

The Selfish Gene is basically a gene's way of surviving and replicating in a given environment or vehicle. A gene can either mutate or combine with other genes in order to extend his life cycle for the next generation.

Now, with this in mind, the life forms that live in our current world has basically all their traits, behaviors, and instincts via these genes. These genes create the genetic blueprint of an organism (aka DNA).

This is how these organisms adapt to their environment and distinguish which organisms will advance through natural selection and which will perish. This would explain why more than 99% of all lifeforms that ever inhibited this planet are extinct.

Now, back to the main purpose of this book. For a phenotype, it's just a code inside of an organism's body. It 'tells' the organism (for it's specific genetic coding) what actions, appearances, instincts, etc. for survival and reproduction. For example, a colony of beavers will build a dam as a provider for shelter. Now, what if the beavers want to expand their colony to another area of the river/lake? It's not immediate (nothing is in evolution), but this phenotype for dam building will 'extend' to incorporate expansion. This may be hard to grasp, but this extension occurs, because improves the beaver (as a species) survival and/or reproductive chances.

There is a ton more details about how genes/phenotypes determines all species behavior and survival mechanisms. I find it very fascinating how every living creature and organism that has existed, exists, and will exist because of genes replication and extending phenotypes. And there is still more to learn about this topic. What a great opportunity to be able to know that there is a reason for every mechanism and actions creatures take even if we don't really have an answer for the reason.
