# "The Blind Watchmaker" by Richard Dawkins

***Completed Reading September 6th 2016***

Every single living organism that exist or ever has existed originated from the same ancestral cell. That sentence in it of itself is a bold claim that demands bold evidence. And this is what this is basically about: "How evolution through natural selection explains the complexity of all life forms".

The theory of evolution didn't really build steam in the scientific community until Charles Darwin showed how natural selection through environmental factors evolved all complex lifeforms. It hard people to wrap their mind around this concept for two main reasons: 
1. Evolution in a species takes millions of years.
2. The skepticism of different lifeforms having peculiar behavioral traits strictly for the purpose of survival and reproduction.
   
It's probably the most accurate and factual theory we have for the origin of life. Even though, in our lifetime, we can never get actual case studies for evolution, there's proof around us to show that all lifeforms originated from simplistic ancestral being. It so happens that a divergence occurred more and more as time went on via mutations and environmental settings. 99% of the genetic code between a chimpanzee and a human are the same.

Speaking of genetic code, the fact that all living organisms have the same DNA structure should bring questions of 'What was the original holders of DNA?' We have an abundance of different lifeforms throughout the history of earth due to different genetic makeups and how information in stored.

I could talk about this book for hours, but I think I cut it here. There is a wealth of information about evolution and other theories about the origin of life in this book. I recommend you read this book with a open-mind, because it is heavily biased towards the theory of evolution. I have my own opinion, but I rather just be the unbiased party 🙂

Thanks!
