# "How the West was Lost" By Dambisa Moyo

***Completed Reading September 27th 2016***

Ever wonder what the world would be like if China was the economic powerhouse? Well, this book explains how America and most of Europe are losing economically and intellectually to China and India.

If you haven't already realized the insurmountable amount of debt that United States has racked up in the past 20 - 30 years, then you should wake up. The government and the people have been digging an deeper and deeper hole of debt with short term solutions and improper allocation of funds.

It's scary to think that most American think that getting a mortgage and racking up credit in order to get a higher credit score should be the norm. Even worse, they do it unconsciously. America and its people need to wake up to this detrimental mentality or else we're going to be in an economic slump that will be nearly impossible to get out of without default of bankruptcy occurring on a national level.

I would suggest more people get into reading books like this one. It brings light on the economic concerns and issues that this country has been going through for over three decades. And it seems like this country refuses to learn from its mistakes.

P.S. Just realize that we live in a consumer based society where appealing to the masses is more important than efficiently saving for your future. We need to turn into a saving based society not only for our country but for ourselves. It's been too long that the people in this country would rather rack up debt than save for unforeseen situations. A change needs to happen soon.
