# "Enterprise Integration Patterns, Designing, Building, and Deploying Messaging Solutions" By Gregor Hope and Bobby Woolf.

***Completed Reading March 3rd 2017***

One of my larger goals in life is to be an architectural engineer. What encompasses that is understanding of different infrastructures, design patterns, and business logic/needs for stakeholders. I heard about the typical monolithic and micro services architecture, but I was introduced to asynchronous messaging in the past year or so.

Basically, this book explains in great detail about different patterns used in different lifecycles of a asynchronous messaging system. These messages follow a pattern called Publish/Subscribe. Think of it as sending an e-mail to some recipients and those recipients receiving the e-mail whenever they want.

This solves the issue of our traditional web services (REST or SOAP) using synchronous calls. For example, if my services were to send some packet of data to a component, the component would need to be active when this call is made. If the component was inactive/down, then the packet of data would be lost and would need to be retried.

With asynchronous messaging, that same packet of data would be stored in a queue if the component is inactive. The moment the component is active, then the packet of data can be read as normal.

This is a very simplistic and happy-path case, because there are tons of variables that needs to be accounted for that this book addresses.

The biggest drawback of this pattern is debugging is more difficult and harder to trace the flow in comparison to synchronous calls. A quote the authors use which I really enjoy for this pattern is: "An architect's dream and a developer's nightmare"

There's a substantial wealth of knowledge about designing and implementing a messaging based system. Each pattern and method introduced in this book should be used based on applicability and business needs. Most of these patterns would be more of detrimental than beneficial if used improperly, so it's best to weigh options and see what is best for the situation. Because as any experienced developer will tell you, "A decision made 5 years ago is affecting me now!"
