# "Brain rules for Baby" by John Medina

***Completed Reading April 29th 2017***

As many of you may know, I'm going to be a father pretty soon! My girlfriend and I are very excited to have a baby boy. With this, I couldn't help but acquire some information about what are the best approaches to raising a baby from birth to adolescence. With this, I came across this awesome read.

Dr. Medina, a developmental molecular biologist, speaks about some of the best approaches to raising a child based on scientific studies and habitual behaviors baby's generally display. Here's the main points I found really resonated with and I plan on practicing with my baby.
1. Don't allow the baby to watch TV until they are at least 2 years of age. Based on scientific studies, for every hour per day a baby watches television, they are 10% more likely to display aggressive behavior towards other children and less likely to remain focused on a topic
2. Don't encourage good behavior/accomplishments with attributes/skills but with hardwork/effort. For example, if the child gets an A on a test, it's best for the parent to say "Great work! This is the result of hardworking, studying, and effort!" rather than "Great work! You must be a genius!". The reason for this is the child will associate accomplishments with hard work rather than natural skills. It'll make them more resilient towards failures, because they will then realize that they need to work to overcome a failure.
3. Breast milk is better than formula. There are enzymes and protein in breast milk that will help the child grow stronger and development a deeper connection with the mother.
4. (This one for me is the most important) Constantly communicate and talk to your child. The best way for parents to have a connection with the baby is through talking and spending time with them. In this book alone, Dr. Medina shows multiple studies/cases of how children who spend more time interacting and communicating with their parents and peers at a young age compared to others have an advantage in cognitive, verbal, and intellectual skills. Also, these children are more creative and more curious about what is happening in their world.
   
There is so much more information in this book, and I felt like there was a ton of information I wasn't even aware of. I plan on applying some of these methods for my child, so I can be the best father in the world. Because my father Thomas A. Morris has always been there for and supported me, and I want to become better than for my child/ren. And hopefully, the tread will continue 🙂
