# "Foundational Falsehoods of Creationism" by Aron Ra

***Completed Reading May 14th 2017***

As humans, we always wonder and question, "What is the origin of our cosmos and universe?" Ever since humans were able to communicate with one another, we've always wondered how life, organisms, earth, our solar system, our universe, and multiple universe came into existence. With these questions, there comes hypotheses which requires empirical evidences which will led to laws in which those laws create theories.

Before the theory of evolution, the existence of a super natural force creating our entire galaxy seemed to be the only answer us as humans had to answer these unknown questions. The amazing aspect of science is that any empirical claim expressed by anyone needs to be supported with empirical evidence via tests. When claims are getting made, science will make attempts to disprove claims. Even laws that we hold as 'truth' (Law of motion and Law of relativity) must be challenged and disproven, because that's the only way as humans we can get a little bit closer into understanding our cosmos.

In this book, Aron Ra speaks about 15 reasons why creationism is not only been disproven as a theory for the origin of life, but how creationists try to push creationism as a theory with no empirical evidence to back the claims
1. Evolution = Atheism
2. Sacred Scriptures Are the "Word of God"
3. Human Interpretation Is "Absolute Truth"
4. "Belief Is Knowledge"
5. "Evolutionism" Part 1: "Evolution Is the Religion of Atheism"
6. "Evolutionism" Part 2: "Evolution must explain the Origin of Life, the Universe, and Everything"
7. Evolution is Random
8. There is no beneficial mutation
9. No Transitional Species have ever been found
10. The Evolutionary "Tree of Life" is not implied in biology or the fossil record
11. Macroevolution has never been observed
12. Creation 'science'
13. Evolution is a fraud
14. Creation is evident
15. Evolution is a theory, not a fact
