# "Calculating the Cosmos: How Mathematics unveils the Universe" By Ian Stewart

***Completed Reading July 17th 2017***

Nothing is more compelling to me than 'knowing' the origin of life/universe. I put knowing in quotes, because the best  astronomers, cosmologists, physicists, and mathematicians don't have clear answers to all these cosmological questions. This is what makes science beautiful, because we're getting closer and closer to the answers every single day.

This book really fascinated me by explaining why the planets are aligned and positioned at certain lengths from each other due to gravitational forces exerted on each other. It even beautifully speaks about how we're made out of the same basic elemental composition as the stars that are millions of light years away from us.

I was in awe at how our universe came into existence, and the simply breathtaking size of the universe. Some assumptions are even saying that the universe is infinite or elliptic.

I absolutely love the fact that I live in the age where we can see the Andromeda Galaxy which is 2.5 million light years away! And that is the closest galaxy. Based on devices that can scan for gamma rays, electromagnetic rays, basic chemical elements, and light waves, there exists over millions of other galaxies in our own universe.

If you want to know about our universe and what astronomers, cosmologists, physicists, and mathematicians are theorizing and debating, I would strongly recommend this book as a fine read.
