# "Rich Dad Poor Dad" by Robert T. Kiyosaki

***Completed Reading August 1st 2017***

Most of us are going to die leaving debt in this world. And do you want to know why... because we're too comfortable. We don't want to take risk, we rather play it safe. "Get a good job" "Invest in mutual funds" "All you need is a saving account" "This company has a great retirement plan". Most of us are tools to the system and don't even realize it. Have you ever woke up one day and wondered, "Why the hell am I doing this? Why am I working for someone else rather than myself? Why am I always in constant fear to creditors, loan sharks, and banks?"

This book has made me realize that the poor and middle class are drones, pawns, grunt workers, slaves, and indoctrinated servants who have been conned, lied to, and deceived since we were born. We're fed this B.S. story that if you work hard and get a great job, "YOU" can achieve the American Dream. While the poor and middle class believe in this illusionary reality, the rich are finding ways to evade taxes, increase their asset columns, and make people work for them.

The crazy thing is... this is all attainable with just a little financial intelligence and courage. Every single one of us have the opportunity to be financially independent and live life the way it's meant to be, but we listen to the wrong people. I'm literally shaking with excitement from what this book has taught me and what I plan on doing with my financial life.

Right now, I'm have a rich/wealthy mindset in a financially dependent situation. That's why my goal by the age of 30 is to have $100k+ of assets in stocks, small-cap stocks, tax-lieu, tangible assets, and REAL ESTATE. I want my money making money.

I recommend every single person who reads this feed to go out and get this book. Educate your mind. Your greatest asset is your mind. Grow your mind, and opportunities that you haven't seen before will start appearing. Start now and you will soon be living the REAL AMERICAN DREAM.
