# "Godless: How an evangelical Preacher Became One of America's Leading Atheists" by Dan Baker

***Completed Reading March 28th 2018***

I have heard of people who were previously pastors in their community converting to atheism. I'm assuming that it has to be the scariest and most riveting moment of that person's life. Literally, your whole worldview is altered, and I can only imagine how hard it must be to cope with such an epiphany.

This curiosity is what attracted me to this book. Dan Baker, as you can tell from the title, was a preacher turned atheist. As mentioned in his book, he was a devout christian who wrote road throughout the U.S. and Mexico preaching the word of God and attempting to proselytize people to Christianity. He even became a composer and wrote multiple notable music pieces in the name of Yahweh.

After some personal searching and findings, he gradually became a humanist who couldn't wholeheartedly preach what he doesn't truly believe. At one point in his book, he would give a sermon to a congregation of people and would have restrain himself from blurting out, "It's all a lie!"

To make a long story short, Dan had to leave his old life behind to embrace his new found beliefs. With that, Dan has become one of the leading atheists in the nation and created a non-profit organization called "Freedom From Religion Foundation"

Dan also dives into his and other atheists' reasonings for why we think a certain, how to deal with life/death, where do atheists get their morality, and why the Bible is a flawed book.

As a fellow atheists, I appreciate how Dan approaches life. Dan makes life something packed with meaning and purpose. He really emphasizes that a person should perform good deeds for their fellow primates for better our society, and not to appease a higher power. In the short timespan that humans have been on this earth, we would have never gotten to the point we are at today without being a very altruistic social group. We should all do the best we can everyday to not only better ourselves but to better the lives of someone.

Thanks Dan Baker for bringing this message to me and everyone else who has, is having, and will have the pleasure of reading your book!
