# "Decisive: How to Make Better Choices in Life and Work" by Chip and Dan Heath

***Completed Reading April 17th 2018***

How many of us actually take the time to think about the decisions we make big or small? Of course, the minuscule decisions we make everyday (such as whether to brush my teeth in the morning or rather to eat oatmeal vs cereal) doesn't really require much though process behind them. But what about the decisions that can lead to opportunities, life altering repercussions, and moral dilemmas?

Well, Dan and Chip give a plethora of suggestions that can used in life and at work to improve the successfulness of the decisions we make.

There are four villains of decision making people perform unconsciously that traditionally leads to bad decisions being made:
1. Narrow Frame: Limiting their decisions
2. Confirmation Bias: Finding information that affirms your beliefs
3. Short Term Emotions: Using the initial reaction to an occurrence to make a decision
4.  Overconfidence: Being so certain that this decision will be successful that the person ignores other factor or data

To counteract those villains, Dan and Chip talks about the WRAP principle:
1. Widen Your Options
2. Reality Test Your Assumptions
3. Attain Distance Before Deciding
4. Prepare to Be Wrong

They go into great detail about techniques that follow the WRAP principle and case stories about companies and individuals who followed those techniques and experienced great success.

I plan on applying a majority of these techniques at my job and in my life, and I highly recommend this book to anyone. It's an awesome tool for making the most valuable and appropriate decisions.

Thanks!
