# "The Essays of Warren Buffett" selected, arranged, and introduced by Lawrence A. Cunningham 

***Completed Reading June 18th 2018***

My opinion about Warren Buffett has changed since I've read this book. To be honest before I read this book, I thought Warren Buffett was the typical CEO who only cares about the bottom line and his personal financial growth. After this reading this book, I have a new found respect for this man, and I'll explain why more in my review of the book.

To begin, Warren Buffett goes into great depth about his business investments and how to can find a potential successful company in the long term. Warren Buffett explains how seeing the true value of a company will make you better successful in the long run than trying to find a big payout company.

He even explains why there are so many systematic issues in fortune 500 companies and the government due to this companies only seeing their short term gain rather than a long term opportunity. He goes into considerable depth about the 'legal' fudging of accounting numbers by major companies to reduce the amount of taxes these corporations have to pay to the government. Warren Buffett mentions that out of the taxes paid by Fortune 500 companies, they only pay around $650 billion dollars/year combined. That is abysmal! Warren mentions that if these companies paid the amount in taxes they're supposed to pay, the national debt would be wiped out.

This brings me to why I respect Warren Buffett so much now. Warren Buffett, his partner Charlie Munger, and his company Berkshire Hathaway could easily follow the practices of other companies to make a pretty penny. But they take the high road for the betterment of their business, partners, investors, shareholders, and society. For someone who could easily let greed make the decisions for him but take the charitable and honorable route, I wish to reach that level of self-control, trustworthiness, and selflessness at some point in my life.
