# "Atheist Universe: The Thinking Person's Answer to Christian Fundamentalism" by David Mills

***Completed Reading July 17th 2018***

David Mills does an fantastic job with explaining the discontinuity between religion and science. He walks the reader through how over decades of religious zealots attempting to input the "God of the Gaps" into any unknown answers to primarily how life on earth currently started.

"Theories" of these religious representatives usually explain how the environment was created for humans to thrive. Also, they introduce Intelligent Design to explain how the complexity of species and inanimate objects all originates from an designer.

David Mills counteract these "theories" with scientific explanations of evolution and lifeforms conforming to their environment. He explains why through mutation and natural selection, lifeforms evolve in order to improve their chances of surviving and reproducing. To make sure my wording is more clear, the genes that gets passed on for multiple generations mutates and evolves in order to augments its hosts ability to survive and reproduce based on its environment.

David Mills explains that the main reason why humans "see" themselves on a higher pedal from other species is due to our intellectual and conscious abilities in conjunction to not really having to deal with life or death situations for a typical person. Unlike most species, we don't have to rely on our heightened senses to survive in our environment.

To make a long post short, I personally more rebuttals in my repertoire thanks to David Mills. I honestly never heard of him before I read this book, but I will definitely be watching debates with him and his opponents 🙂 .
