# "Fighting God: An Atheist Manifesto For a Religious World" by David Silverman

***Completed Reading October 3rd 2018***

David Silverman has a stern stance on separation of religion and government, and he lays it all out in this book.

From stem cell research to the use of contraceptives, Christianity has utilized the American government to push their beliefs into the laws and regulations of this country. And, as David Silverman vehemently argues, this puts human life in jeopardy for no reasonable purpose other than my book and God said so.

David Silverman speaks about how secular countries have happier and better lifestyles than religious countries. This stems from religious institutions enforcing lack of inclusivity, restricting opposing ideals, strong-arming unwilling participants, and etc.

But... all is not lost. The American Atheist and other secular organizations are pushing back on these regulations and exercising their constitutional rights to speak and display their ideals against fundamentalist propaganda. And it's working. Their has been a gradual increase in the amount of atheist in this country and continues to grow. With globalization and other sources of information, the younger generation won't have the wool pulled over their eyes, because they can fact check and discover pretty easily the truth. It's just amazing that in a national survey in 2016, 64% of Americans would vote for secular president. I honestly can't wait for that day to happen.

I personally won't infringe on anyone's beliefs unless it affects other people. Everyone is entitled to their own beliefs and opinions, and I respect them for it. But, I will not stand on the sideline when religion tries to invade our governmental and educational institutions. But I am honestly happy to say based on this book that I probably won't have to worry about it soon in a couple of decades.
