# "The Bell Curve: Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life" by Richard J. Herrnstein and Charles Murray

***Completed Reading February 1st 2019***

When I first heard about this book, I was listening to Sam Harris's "Waking Up" (Now "Making Sense") Podcast when Sam invited Charles Murray onto his podcast to discuss how IQ affects life in America. Now, at first, I was very skeptical. Listening to Charles Murray points about IQ having correlation to the lifestyle and decisions people made in their lives had me a little upset (not going to lie). But I told myself that I have to see his POV with an open-mind. So in addition to listening to the podcast, I picked up the book.

Let me say this... Charles Murray and Richard J. Herrnstein are not coming from a bias POV or clouding data to fuel their narrative. Every point they bring up in this book from the IQ of citizens from poverty to affluence is backed by data. They pull the majority of their data from the NLSY (National Longitudinal Survey of Youth) which they use to correlate those participants IQs to certain criteria (Social Economic Status, Profession, Martial Status, Number of children, Schooling, etc.).

One thing I've learned is that no matter how much I want believe or wish something to be true, when facts and evidence says contrary, I have to go with the evidence.

There's a lot of correlations that Charles Murray and Richard Herrnstein makes between IQ and certain criteria that will piss people off. And I completely understand. When I'm reading that average black person is in the 16th percentile of SD (standard deviation) to the average while person when it comes to IQ, of course I'm livid. But, I ask myself, what am I mad about? Why is this happening? And how can we fix this?

Now granted, this data is over two decades old, so I'm very curious about what the data is now, but this really makes me think about if IQ has such a high correlation to our genetics, how can we as a society account for this? Charles Murray and Richard Herrnstein seem to make suggestions/solutions that seem to focus on honing the skills of the people in the top IQ percentile and finding meaning in life for people at the bottom IQ percentile (not entirely sure how that approach will look).

Overall, I understand from both sides of the argument when it comes to IQ and its effects on the American Society. For me personally, I think IQ is effected by both genetics and environment. I don't know how much to scale each one, but I do feel a person's IQ can be improve to a point. Everyone have their own advantages or quirks that they are natural at and should be honed accordingly. If more schools had a diverse curriculum which allowed a majority of students to hone their skills in what they are exceptional/great at, a lot more students could reach their true potential and excel at that profession.

But, I rambled on long enough. Read the book and let me know what you think.
