# "The Coddling of the American Mind: How Good Intentions and Bad Ideas Are Setting Up a Generation for Failure" By Jonathan Haidt and Greg Lukianoff

***Completed Reading March 4th 2019***

As a parent, I've been doing a decent amount of readings about how to properly raise, engage, and motivate my son. And then I ran into this book that has gotten me very worried about the current climate of our students and country.

Starting at the "I-Gen" generation, social media has been an awesome platform for people to raise awareness, engage with friends from across the world, and speak their minds about a certain topic. But has it made this generation less social and more apprehensive towards others opinions? Conjoin this with overprotective parents, and you have yourself a country of fragile young adults.

And what I mean by fragile is an inability to rationally and appropriately respond to someone with an opposing opinion from your own. We live in a climate where professors on a college campuses have to change their entire curriculum to be more 'secure' for their student body in order to not offend anyone. Is this really learning? How can we have an open discussion about sensitive topics if these young adults have to be coddled even in a setting that should allow for such debates?

And addition to young adults being more fragile, the rate of depression/anxiety has risen in this age group over the past 5 years. Evidence points towards overprotection from parents and lack of resolving their own problems at the appropriate ages. So when these young adults get into the real world or college campus and encounter these obstacles, they are ill-prepared to handle them.

I'm optimistic that things will get better though. Based on Jonathan and Greg's closing statements, the country is aware that coddling kids and teenagers are causing long-term harm for them and will take the proper measures to rectify these issues.

As for me, I'm a huge advocate for open speech and debate. This is the only way as a society and community we can advance and approach issues with diverse perspectives. If we pull this essential component out of our system, our country will become divisive and this dichotomy will permeate our educational institutions (as is happening right now). So please for the sake our future and the next generation be open and receptive to the opposition. This is the only way we can engage in intellectual discussions that will allow both parties to reach a compromising solution.
