# "The End of Faith" by Sam Harris

***Completed Reading May 5th 2019***

From spirituality to religious dogma, Sam Harris addresses the major issues with how the global climate of tolerance and cohesiveness is slowly corroding due to ingrained fundamental piety of certain intolerant and destructive religions. We currently have to coexist with extremists that threaten the sanctity of our country simply due to contradictory beliefs of prehistoric scripture.

Especially with recent atrocities that have occurred to synagogues and temples, it's recommended, if not, necessary that we adhere to some of the suggestions that Sam Harris has laid out in his book about using reason and empirical evidence to dictate how to address these issues.

We need to be very critical and interrogative about certain claims and actions that are taken in the name of religion. I'm truly concerned that 14th century morality is still thriving in certain countries, and we don't appropriately address it. As Sam Harris mentions, instead of us looking at certain atrocities or threats that occur from a rational lens, we channel the focus to political and educational sectors. In Sam Harris's previous podcast: "What Do Jihadists Really Want 2019?", we need to address these issues at its core. I would advise you to listen to this podcast with an open mind and realize how daunting it is that these scriptures influences how people think, and more concerning, act.

I really enjoy almost everything Sam Harris does. And it's not just his stance on religion and spirituality that makes him so appealing. It's his core belief that in order for us as a whole global entity to cohesively live together, we have to be able to have open discussions about topics that make us uncomfortable. Having a pious and dogmatic approach to a conversation will not benefit our society. That's who no matter what stance or belief someone has, I'm willing to listen and try to understand their prospective, and I hope to receive the same treatment. Because this is one of the major ways we can unite together and remove this xenophobia we have in ours and other countries.
