# "Lying" by Sam Harris

***Completed Reading June 11th 2019***

Does lying have detrimental consequences? For me personally, I feel that in certain situations, lying is a moral necessity. For example, let's say a distressed woman is trying to escape from her abusive husband and I decide to provide her a safe haven. When her husband arrived at my doorstep with bloodshot eyes and a crimson face and aggressively demands to know do I know where his wife is, I feel that for the safety and well-being of this woman, I need to either tell him that I have no idea where she is or misdirect him somewhere else.

Now, Sam Harris, in this scenario, recommends that the best approach is to not lie, but redirect the subject to something else. I'm not painting Sam's opinion about lies very well with this example, but Sam utilizes the morale landscape to relay why lying (overall) is a detriment to our society.

Indeed, our society have two major issues that stems from lies: Giving little credence to expert opinions and ineffective feedback.

Let's revisit Dr. Andrew Wakefield's false claim that vaccines causes autism. Even when his claim was refuted by the scientific community and his license revoked, there are millions of parents who will refuse to give their kids vaccinations in fear of their children gaining autism. This in turn has caused an outbreak of measles around the country today. In addition to that, situations like these also cause people to not give any or minimal credulity to experts. Abortion, global warming, climate change, stem-cell research, lab-grown produce, and many other subjects have a negative connotation in the general public which is truly daunting.

How many of us have been in a situation we told our friend, family member, or significant other a white lie to spare their emotions? Sure, at the time it seems like we're being a good person. But how will that person grow if you don't give them constructive truthful feedback. At some point, the wool will be removed from their eyes when someone else gives them that feedback in a less ideal way. Even worse, we have deprived our society of effectively giving/receiving feedback. Feedback is a useful tool to help all of us grow in some facet/s pof our lives. By Being blind to our faults while being yolked by false assertions about ourselves, we not only stifle our personal and profession growth but makes us fragile when someone gives us the much needed feedback.

Overall, I feel that Sam Harris makes some critical points that everyone needs to reflect on when it comes to telling the truth. So, please, get yourself a hard copy or an audiobook of "Lying". It'll make you question the next time you lie to someone.
