# "The Gaslight Effect" by Dr. Robin Stern

***Completed Reading June 26th 2019***

Dr. Robin Stern goes over the 3 stages of Gaslighting in a relationship and how to "turn off the gas" in the relationship.

Gaslighting is when a gaslighter in a relationship is using their power or influence to gain some reliance from the gaslightee due to the gaslightee need for approval from the gaslighter. Of course, the dangers of a relationship like this is that that gaslightee will be broken down from a confindence, self-esteem, and joy/happiness perspective. Let's go into a brief explanation of each stage.

Stage 1: The gaslightee will defend their stance of their identity or feelings when their gaslighter invokes an action on their gaslightee's personality, identity, and/or feelings.

Stage 2: The gaslightee starts questioning themselves due to the gaslighter's paradigm of poking at the same or similar personality, identity, and/or feelings. This causes the gaslightee to think they themselves are actually the problem and not their gaslighter.

Stage 3: The gaslightee has modded into the identity, personality, and feelings the gaslighter points out. The gaslightee relies so much on the gaslighter's perception of them that they don't even defend the criticism of the gaslighter and agree with their gaslighter's view.

Of course, there are ways to break free, improve, or change a gaslighting relationship. Whether it's a family member, significant other, and/or boss/employee, these relationships cause the gaslightee to feel depressed, anxious, scared, and frustrated for obvious reasons.

If you feel like you or someone you know is in a relationship like this, please read this book. This book will be helpful in questioning the gaslighter and the relationship.
