# "On Tyranny: Twenty Lessons from the Twentieth Century" By Timothy Synder

***Completed Reading September 20th 2019***

"If none of us is prepared to die for freedom, then all of us will die under tyranny." This is the most riveting quote in this entire book, and I'll tell you why.

Timothy Synder's book encompasses heuristics that we're following right now in our country that has been seen in 1933 Nazi Germany, 1929-1953 USSR, and current day Russia and North Korea. It's daunting that there are 20 similarities between these totalitarian societies and the current USA.

To be honest, we've been steering towards this direction for a long time. When we look at how indoctrinated the average US citizen is today, it all stems from the 'democratic' government we have in place. And I put democratic in quotes, because this government is disguised as an oligarchy. It's so blatantly obvious that the richest people in this country has the most power, and there seems to be little to no diversion from this path. In fact, the disparity between the rich and poor has gotten worse due to our complacent and corrupted government.

This comes back to my reference to the quote from earlier, we, as a society, can make an impactful change on how the system is currently operated. Any system can be dismantled with the right battles and focus. We've seen it throughout history in multiple societies. Sadly, our focus is chaotic at best and misguided at its worst. We're in a self-destructing flux right now where different perspectives and social groups can't co-exist with each other. Matter of fact, these social groups fight against each other which moves our focus away from real systemic changes that can benefit the masses.

Even worse, the news outlets that are supposed to be exposing corruptions and malpractices in corporations and our government are focused on clickbait and drawing in more consumers. I guess a tabloid about Donald Trump using a sharpie to expand the projected course of a hurricane grabs more users than writing about bills that could impact the lives of American citizens. It's a god damn shame that it takes Jon Stewart for some attention to be drawn, so Congress could expedite the bill to get funding for the 9/11 first responders Victim Compensation. The moment that bill ran into any barriers, major news outlet should have been posting about it and forcing Congress to give these people what they should be compensated for.

I could rant about this all day, so I will end on this: We live in a country where piles and piles of bullshit in being feed to us, and most of us are eating it like it's candy. Wake the fuck up. Question everything that comes out of our government and new outlets. Question if your ideals are beneficial to you and others around. And be open to others opinions and perspectives. We need as many allies as we can to make a much needed change in our society, and that means challenging yourself. Read books that make you question your life.

Everyone in this world has potential to make a change. Can you be one of the lucky few that die a saint rather than  the many that live as a minion?
