# "Antifragile: Things That Gain From Disorder" by Nassim Taleb

***Completed Reading September 17th 2019***

This is by far one of my favorite reads I had in a while. Every page is filled with riveting and groundbreaking information about this new term incepted by Nassim Taleb.

Nassim Taleb introduces this new concept called Antifragile. In essence, antifragile is the complete opposite of fragile. For example, a glass vase would be fragile, because if it drops on the floor it will break and be rendered useless. On the contrary, an antifragile object will become stronger if it falls.

Nassim goes over how antifragility applies to epistemology, psychology, evolution, government, education, medicine, editorials, and individuals. He also discusses how the current state of corporations focused on neomania and modernity rather than ancient technology is causing companies to become more and more fragile.

Some of the concepts he discusses I don't particularly agree with (such as society being more aligned with Hammurabi's law), but each of his points are explained with an erudite approach rather than blind obedience. Even now, I'm applying this entire concept to certain aspects of my life which is the most valuable thing about this book.

There are aspects of our lives that we are either completely oblivious to or would rather live in the bliss of ignorance. And this book shines a massive beam on those issues that most people don't have the intrepidity to even acknowledge let alone actively engage in changing (even for the betterment of their lives and the generations after them).

It has become clear to me that we live in an extremely fragile state in this country (in both mind and culture). There's too much conformity and not enough saints (people willing to sacrifice themselves for the greater good). The fact that a comedian can lose their livelihood due to saying or typing an ill-humored joke is the textbook definition of a culture that is fragile.

If you're interested at all about the current state of our country and methods to become more antifragile, I would highly recommend this book.
