# "The Upward Spiral: Using Neuroscience to Reverse the Course of Depression, One Small Change at a Time" by Alex Korb

***Completed Reading November 1st 2019***

Let me preface this synopsis by saying I personally have been through depression before, so I'm going to try my best to summarize what Mr. Korb's data points and intentions were in this book.

Mr. Korb goes into great depth about how the human brain works and why certain people are preconditioned to be more prone to depression than other people. For example, some people's genetic makeup allows the body to generate more serotonin than others which leads to a better wellbeing and happiness. This also explains why it's easier for some people to reminisce about pleasurable past events than others which helps the chemical balance of the brain.

Even though this is true, that doesn't mean people can do things in their lives to improve their brain's chemical balance which will help with their depression. Mr. Korb speaks about enjoyable exercising, quality sleep (sleeping without any disturbances throughout the night), massages, and social interactions can move people into the right direction.

To reference the title of the book, people's actions causes a spiral in the upward or downward direction. For example: I exercise in the morning -> I have more energy to speak with people -> since I speak to people, I have a rush dopamine from engaging conversations. This is an example of an upward spiral. While a downward spiral would be: I had a bad night sleep -> since I'm so tired, I don't feel like working out and rather eat something -> since I didn't workout, I feel bad for eating something -> since I feel bad, I don't feel like talking to anyone. Mr. Korb emphasizes that our actions have greater repercussions on our life than we know and can easily get us into a upward/downward spiral without us being aware.

Like I said, I don't have any personal experience with depression, but I honestly feel like this isn't just for people who experience great anxiety/depression (even though this is his intended audience). Everyone can take some lesson from this book on how to improve your life and why certain actions have an impact on how your brain functions and keep chemically balanced.
