# "Talking to Strangers" by Malcolm Gladwell

***Completed Reading November 17th 2019***

Usually, I don't really write a synopsis for audiobooks, but this book is so riveting and disturbing that I have to not only give a brief summary about this book, but also give my thoughts about the overarching purpose of the book.

From Amanda Knox being wrongly suspected and convicted for the murder of her roommate based solely on her responses and demeanor to Bernie Madoff being perceived as a trustworthy and confident market manager even though he ran the largest ponzi scheme in American history, it's becomes very clear that our initial perceptions of people are 50/50. As Malcolm Gladwell points from multiple case studies in history, these perceptions can have dire consequences in the wrong situations. If experienced FBI agents can't tell that the Queen of Cuba (Ana Montes) has been a spy in the bureau for more that a decade, how can we expect the average American to tell if a stranger is being honest or deceiving. But (as Malcolm Gladwell points out) we need to default innate trust in other humans in orders for our society to continue to operate with some level of cohesiveness. If it was the opposite, we would be split into clans and factions which wouldn't allow for our society to be as progressive as it today.

In conjunction to this, Malcolm Gladwell talks about how alcohol consumption is a transformative substance that's turns the consumer into someone else based on their surroundings. He goes into great detail about how an BAC Level of 0.08 causes the prefrontal cortex to be impacted which causes more short-term focused decisions rather than long-term focused. Once the BAC Level goes past 0.15, that's when people might "black out" which is your hippocampus is slightly inhibited, but the rest of your brain functions like normal. Tragically, this is the state of mind both Brock Turner and Chanel Miller were in the traumatic night of January 18th 2015. To briefly paraphrase Malcolm Gladwell's analysis of the situation, the setting is a fraternity party, the majority of people there are college students, and alcohol is being consumed with expectation of people being 'fucked up'. As Malcolm Gladwell says adamantly, this is not at all an ideal setting to make sure both parties have each others consent before engaging in any sexual engagement. From Malcolm Gladwell's perception, that's exactly what happened. A misunderstanding between both Brock and Chanel due to both of them not being in the right state of mind with a bad settings caused Brock Turner to be charged with sexual assault and Chanel Miller having to deal with PTSD due to an unwanted sexual engagement. I, personally, only heard about this case from this book, so I have no opinion about this specific case. But, I do agree with Malcolm Gladwell about how alcohol should be vilified alot more than it is right now especially on college campuses. Alcohol consumption in the right setting, as Malcolm speaks about with a tribe from Kenya when they drink with family, can be controlled, maintained, and allow for people to be transformed based on their surroundings. But when alcohol is consumed excessively by college students at parties with little to no supervision or guidance, horrific situations like these will continue to happen.

Finally, the last misunderstanding that has caused a huge rift between law enforcement and American citizens for the past decade is coupling. By this, Malcolm means for one solution to be effective, you need the other element. Malcolm brings up the 1990s Kansas City, MO with a high crime rate in certain districts of the city. To combat the issue, researchers ran an experiment. After a couple of failed trials, they finally found the solution: to increase the amount of pull overs in those high profile districts. It worked very well because crime significantly dropped in KC. When other precincts around the country heard about this success, they implemented the same solution in their city. The problem was that these precincts implements throughout their ENTIRE cities instead of in ONLY the high crime areas. Sadly, that's how we got to a point where cops are profiling people based on their image, demeanor, and dialogue. When you have a whole precinct in Ferguson, MO rewarding officers based on the amount of tickets they give to locals, you have a systemic problem on your hands. To the point made earlier, when people of a preconceived notion of who looks trustworthy and who looks like a criminal, we get situations with Sandra Bland, Michael Brown, Eric Garner, and so many others that could have been easily been avoided.

Here's my two cents about "Talking to Strangers". I didn't expect this type of dark tone from this book when I first listened to it. I would not recommend this book if you're not in the right state of mind, because this is a heavy and depressing book. It speaks about suicide, profiling, and corruption. But this book has made me really understand that there are two sides to every story and that everything is not what it seems on the surface. I am happy though that most people have an innate trust in one another unless proven otherwise. Honestly, we wouldn't have made it as a species if we didn't. Just be wary of people who try to use that to their advantage.
