# "Forget 'Having It All': How America Messed Up Motherhood--and How to Fix It" by Amy Westervelt

***Completed Reading December 7th 2019***

I had a sense that being a mother was difficult in America, but I didn't realize it was this bad/challenging. Honestly, I praise single mothers who find a way to survive in this patriarchal country we live in. From the expectations/stigmas of how a mother should be to be seen as a liability to employers, we definitely need a dramatic culture mindset shift for how mothers are perceived in this country. Let's start at the beginning though.

Amy starts with how the traditional family is still ingrained in our culture. Before WW1, the majority of fathers were the breadwinners and mothers would stay at home and take care of the children. But when men were deployed during the war, women had to fill in for the vacate workforce in America. This was the beginning of the Women's Rights Movement.

As time has gone on, the traditional family setting was being challenged and even revolted against which caused conservative citizens to fight against this revolt. This is very prevalent in our government and businesses which demean and demonize mothers that goes against the traditional maternity roles/expectations.

This a battle that both sexes have to fight together on. Not only for mothers, but why is it that a stay at home father is frowned on in society? Or even worse, why is it against the patriarchal mold that a man is a caregiver? We need to break this mindset and not demean men for working as daycare providers. This starts at a young age. I'm a prime example of this. When I was a boy/teenager, it never crossed my mind to be a babysitter or take care of a baby.

I thank Amy for making this book, because this needs to be spoken about more in this country. She not only focuses on motherhood, but how each race/ethnicity/class have their own challenges as mothers. The black motherhood experience is drastically different from the white motherhood experience. Same for poor to middle to upper class. We need more of these conversations and even though this book was targeted towards women (more specifically mothers), I feel like men need to read this more for awareness and to become allies.
