# "How to Change Minds The Art of Influence Without Manipulation" by Rob Jolles

***Completed Reading December 20th 2019***

Do you know what's the difference between manipulation and influence? It's amazing how thin the line is between these two concepts, but the key difference is what intent that person has for their counterpart.

Rob Jolles goes through multiple phases of how to influence someone into making the right solution for themselves. And that's kind of the point to my previous question, because if you're trying to force someone to a solution that benefits you, that's manipulation. And sure, you can use these techniques to manipulate people, but if you have good morals, it will slowly eat away at you to keep deceiving people for your own gain.

For influencing people, it's an art of making a person realize why a solution will not only solves their problem, but more importantly make them avoid more dire repercussions for not changing course. For example, if my friend has been smoking for 4 years and eats fast food every other day, I feel like I should do something to change their behavior, so they don't get to lung cancer and/or diabetes in the near or long term future. And yes, it will be awkward and uncomfortable, but change is never comfortable, but if the solution is not made urgent enough, my friend will easily fold back into the patterns/habits they are used.

This book also confirmed my opinion that in order to gain trust with a majority of people we interact with, you just have to be a good active listener. I would go into the details that Rob explains why, but that's basically the first part of the book, so I would just recommend reading the book and try the techniques yourself with intent on helping someone rather than personal gain.
