# "How to Have Impossible Conversations" by Peter Boghossian and James Lindsay

***Completed Reading January 22th 2020***

We've all been there at some point in our lives. Being engaged with your dogmatic interlocutor who's assertions are so ludicrous that you start to question their sanity. I know... it's tough trying to be civil and compassionate with someone like that, but Peter and James has come up with strategic approaches on how to not only have those conversations, but convince that same zealot to start to doubt those same beliefs they were so stern on believing.

Peter and James delve into how everyone has an epistemology of their beliefs. These can be moral, evidence-based, experience, or identity. Basically, the way we can influence someone to doubt their beliefs is to understand and speak their epistemic (or doxastic) language while introducing disconfirming questions into the conversation. And a free benefit is that you can understand different epistemological perspectives from your own which will make you a more open and well-rounded person.

I think everyone in some facet should approach all conversations with this level of openness and willingness to convert your beliefs when your previous beliefs are not valid anymore. In conjunction to this book, I will paraphrase what the great astrophysicist Lawrence Krauss once said, "I want everyone in this room to have something said today that completely decimates their most dogmatic and treasured belief." Through conversations and an open mind, real change and unity can happen between perceived partisan groups
