# “Everyone Lies” by Seth Stephens-Davidowitz

***Completed Reading February 12th 2020***

Ever wondered what percentage of men in Florida looks up incestial videos on Pornhub? Well, I never questioned that until I read this book (which worries me a little for how high that number is based on the stats Seth mentioned in this book).

Seth uses Big Data from multiple mediums (mainly Google) to answer questions that couldn’t be answered 20 years ago. Big Data has been treading in the past 15 years in the tech industry to maximize the UI/UX experience to gain an edge over competitors. But almost every industry is starting or already have been using Big Data to improve the quality of life, exploit, influence, or manipulate the populace as a whole.

Seth goes into topics from casinos figuring out where a customers “breaking point” is to ensure they will not be deterred from returning due to losing too much money to baseball data analysts using a “doppleganger” algorithm to understand when a baseball player will peak.

The utilization of Big Data will only grow from here to the point that there will definitely be a new trend of this analysis will gradually permeate our educational institutions with professors leverages these data points for their own research.

With anything though, we as a society have to vigilant about these practices. A lot of good can come from Big Data, but as we have seen in the now and in the past, manipulative and exploitive practices with Big Data has caused a plethora of issues for the populace.
