# "The Madness of Crowds" By Douglass Murray

***Completed Reading March 29th 2020***

I would like to start this synopsis with two form of communication between interlocutors: Debate vs Dialectic

A debate is two opposing parties trying to defeat their opponents with a set of arguments

A dialectic is two parties attempting to understand the other party's perspective on a topic

Douglas Murray discusses how the movement for minorities (women, ethnic background, and LGBT) have made great strides from their previous endeavors and struggles. Sadly in our generation, it's becoming increasing difficult to engage in constructive conversation that is seen is bigot or racist remarks. As Douglas Murray alludes to we live in a time where previous tweets or message from years ago can be misconstrued to label the poster as a racist or a bigot without little to no ability for redemption.

Cancel culture has become the norm on social media for anybody who is on the wrong side of the political correct fence. This wouldn't be a problem if the "ousted" individual was able to reconcile through apology or charitable actions to the group that felt hurt or attacked. But sadly, these individuals have to capitulate much more in the form of their careers in order for redemption to be fulfilled.

To the point I made earlier, this destroys the ability for needed and open conversation to happen. There could be more studies for geneticists and biologists to investigate is homosexuality is more hardware than software or via versa. But if the evidence is seen as politically incorrect, then those researchers will be bombarded with vitriol and demanded their careers on the silver platter. This is the exact reason why Charles Murray has a difficult time giving speeches on college campuses (even today) after he published his book "The Bell Curve". Now, I don't personally agree with everything in his book, but that's where a dialectic needs to occur rather a diatribe.

If we don't allow for conversations about sensitive subjects to occur in a constructive manner, we're doing ourselves a disservice. "Ignorance is Bliss" can not be the motto we follow for these conversations, because we can be missing some very crucial evidence that can move our society into a better direction.

Hopefully one day, we can get to point where evidence and data points coexists with (even beats it out when necessary) political correctness.
