# "The Lucifer Effect" by Philip Zimbardo

***Completed Reading May 11th 2020***

If you had to describe yourself, how would you? By this I mean, what is your identity? What makes you you? Now, will you expect to be the same person in different situation or environment. Well... this is what the Lucifer Effect exposes about people.

Philip Zimbardo is a psychologist who begin an experiment at Stanford that had a set of students impersonate prisoners while the other set impersonated guards. These students, when interviewed and vetted, were psychologically stable and from stable households. Nothing about these students indicated any psychopathic or sociopathic tendencies. And yet... if you weren't aware of this before, you would think certain guards were sadistic and tyrants.

From spraying the prisoners with water hoses to making prisoners imitate sexual acts towards one another, these officers would order prisoners to perform a range of activities. Some were beign and others were malicious in order to make the prisoners understand who held the power.

After Zimbardo cut the experiment short in a post interview, some of the guards felt like they had to do those acts in order to ensure the prisoners understand whose is the authority in the prison. Some of the guards didn't even realize that they became someone else in a completely different situation.

Do you think you could hold your identity in a similar situation?

Let's talk about another psychology experiment: The Milgram Experiment. The Milgram Experiment is a 'shock' experiment where the professor (Stanley Milgram or one of his colleagues), the victim (this person is an actor and is not actually being shocked), and the shocker (the participant of the experiment) are investigating how far the shocker will go in shocking a victim. Basically, if the victim gets a memory question wrong, they are shocked. The severity of the shock increases the more questions they get wrong. Again, the victim is not actually getting shocked, but acting as if they are in order to put the shocker in a conundrum of opposing the authority (aka the professor) in order to ensure they don't harm the victim anymore.

When I first heard about this, I initially thought that the majority of people would stop the moment they felt they were hurting their victim. But what's horrifying is that out of 40 participants (all male) 66% of them went to the maximum voltage of 450 volts while all of them hit 300 volts at some point. This brought to light another distressing and disturbing concept from the SPE (Stanford Prison Experiment): Obedience to Authority.

Throughout this entire book, Zimbardo always comes back to 'Obedience to Authority' as the key culprit for a majority of the hedious and heinous acts otherwise sane people would never be expected to participant in in certain situations. If you have the time dear reader to look up these similar real life incidents of what happens when obedience to authority can cause real life detriment, here are some examples as mentioned in the Lucifer Effect (I must warn you that all of these incidents are graphic and horrifying, so please if this will cause you discomfort, please don't look these incidents up)
1. SPE (Stanfor Prison Experiment)
2. The Milgram Experiment
3. My Lai Massacre
4. Strip Search Phone Call Scam
5. Abu Ghraib Prison

I would go into more detail about these, but I feel it would be too graphic for facebook, so I would rather not.
Even though there is a plethora of vile and disturbing subjects in "The Lucifer Effect", I'm happy that Dr. Zimbardo ended the book on a good note that informs the reader/listener that there is something that can be done to mitigate and even prevent these horrific situations from happening. And it comes in two forms:
1. Heroes who opposes the tyrannical system
2. Leadership that stops these acts from ever festering

Outside of The Milgram Experiment, all the incidents mentioned in "The Lucifer Effect" were brought to light by heroes or authority figures putting their foot down and doing the right thing. It takes true courage to go against what the norm says is ok. You can lose your career, be ostracized and vilified by that social group, have your life or the life of your loved ones threatened or even taken. We've all read or seen it in our lifetime. But that's what makes those individuals true heroes: "Knowing what is happening is wrong and standing up against it no matter the cost".

If you made it to the end of this post, I want to thank you. I would recommend this book, but it's truly heavy... It takes a lot out of you and it makes you question, "Am I capable of doing that if I was in that same situation?" But that's what's so paradoxical about this book. If you are aware of this phenomenon, are you better equipped to handle yourself if you fall into that situation? I'll leave you with that.
