# "Dare to Lead" By Brene Brown

***Completed Reading June 11th 2020***

When we initially think of a leader, we think of someone who doesn't have faults. Someone who has all the answers. And someone who is perfection encapsulated in a human being. Well, maybe I'm over-exaggerating, but we have given the halo effect to leaders in the past that has made a lasting impact on the world in some fashion. But as humans, we all have our flaws. And what Brene Brown constantly emphasizes in this book is that vulnerable leaders are the best leaders.

When Brene Brown used the phrase "Dare to Lead", so means that daring leadership is taking a confident/courageous approach to leadership rather than the tyrannical and defensive approach. By that, she means vulnerable leaders are able to admit that they are wrong and don't have all the answers and openly rely on their team to help move everyone forward. On the opposite spectrum, a defensive leader will blame others for faults that occurs and throw someone else under the bus to save their own skin.

To be honest, it's kind of make sense why a decent amount of C-Suite/VP leaders have this armor up around them. They're scared of the repercussions of failing. They're scared of falling short or looking bad to their leaders. They're scared of taking responsibility of their faults or recognizing their short comings.

What Brene Brown want to emphasize is that we all have to fail in order to succeed. We all have weaknesses. We all havee our own faults. But what makes any team/organization successful is working together to counterbalance your teammates faults and having a safe space for people to fail.

Whenever we look at any 'new' technology or the cutting edge innovative gadget, people really don't realized how many iterations it took for the successful product to come to existence. How many prototypes that have been scrapped. How many hours of failure and wrong turns to find the right road. All people ever see is the end product, and that's probably why it's so hard for people to feel like failure is just a stepping stone to something greater.

I recommend this book for all aspects of life (career, personal, spiritual). Because no matter where you are in life, you can always constantly improve yourself and understand that it is alright to falter,fail,or fall short every now and then.
