# "Start with Why" By Simon Sinek

***Completed Reading June 30th 2020***

I remember listening to ET (Eric Thomas) during one of his motivational speeches to a group of people. And one the phrases that has always resonated with me was: "What's your why?" Initially, I thought it meant what makes you work harder than your contemporaries. What makes you wake up in the morning.

But now after listening to this book and remembering the phrase, it's has become clearer to me what a person's or corporation's Why means. It's not tangible or even easy to explain, but it's something that has a purpose bigger than the person or corporation. A message that inspires not only internal people, but the customers themselves. The kind of Why that makes customer pay premium prices or inconvenience themselves to stay loyal to a corporation.

Simon discusses in length why companies like Southwest, Apple, Harley Davidson, Costco, and other similar companies have such a cult following with their products. These companies have a clear and consistent Why that makes people want to pay premium prices for their products and even tattoo the corporation's brand on some portion of their body.

But on the opposite side of the spectrum, if a company doesn't know their Why and only focuses on the How and What, that's when their products is just a product. Just look at Walmart, AOL, Microsoft, and so many other companies. Yeah, they still make money at the end of the day, but do people pay for their products out of support and loyalty or out of convenience. And sadly enough, so many companies only care about their bottom line, so they don't even try to ask "Why are we here?" That's why so many companies focus on marketing, discounts, celebrity shout-outs, billboards, sale tactics, mass e-mail sends, commercials, and so many other manipulative tactics to gain customers. Sure, it works for the short term, but what will make these customers want to come back when your competition will pull the exact same tactics.

I remember reading a "GoodReads" review on this book saying, "This book should have been a 20 minute article". That is true, but I think Simon made it so repetitive, because it's essential that current and future entrepreneurs and leaders in corporations understand how important a company's Why is. Because without it, the company is just there to make money.
