# "Human Diversity: The Biology of Gender, Race, and Class" by Charles Murray

***Completed Reading July 14th 2020***

From Charles Murray's previous work of "The Bell Curve", "Losing Ground", and "Coming Part" comes a book that really challenges the stigma of "our genes don't define us". Now, this is a very superficial phrase to describe Charles Murray's arguments within his book. So I think it's best to for me to focus on the top 3 key takeaways I perceive Charles Murray wants his readers to walk away with and I recommend if you would like a deeper dive into these takeaways, please read the book.
1. Polygenic scores are going to become more prevalent in our society as more research grows in understanding gene sequencing and SNPs correlations to certain traits. One of the things Charles really wanted to drive home was alleles by themselves have little to no effects on cognitive and physical traits, immunity/susceptibility to a certain disease, and sensory enhancements/defects. But, a certain combination can cause a stronger correlation to certain traits (e.g. a gene sequence ACGTTCGA might increase the chances of said person being bipolar vs. someone with CAGTGTTA).
2. The farther a tribe of people are from another tribe, the more hereditary differences each tribe will have. This is pretty obvious and straightforward to see not just in humans, but also in other species with distant cousins. We can easily take the example of Asian vs. American honey bee. From multiple generations of adapting to their environment and ensuring their species continue to exist, Asian honey bees has developed a defense mechanism that allows them to overheat an Asian wasp's body if the Asian wasp tries to invade the colony. Since the American honey bee never had such an adversary to deal with for multiple generations, if a colony of Asian wasps were to invade an American honey bee hive, they would be wiped out.
3. Our country need to reevaluate our approach to making citizens feel whole. Charles Murray on countless occasions have discussed that shared environment at a certain point (at teenage years) will have little to no effect on improving a person's skillset (unless they're in a very dangerous and destitute environment). One of most referenced studies Charles utilizes is the twin separated at birth. Even though they live in different environments, there are some striking resemblances in the twin's choices, partners, occupations, interests, and habits. Of course with the pool of people being small, it's hard to verify that these data points mean anything, but that's why polygenic scores might open a whole new world of possibility. If there was a humongous amount of polygenic scores and geneticists could use this data to correlate polygenic scores to particular traits, this could be groundbreaking on anthropology and medicine. I remember Malcolm Gladwell discussing how sports data scientists uses the Doppelganger Implementation to get an estimated career projectile of certain baseball players based on previous baseball players who had very similar physical attributes. I think once we enough data points with polygenic scores, the medical community can do something similar with patients that have similar polygenic scores. Prescriptions and medical advice can be more precise and focused due to a previous patient having similar polygenic scores. To not belabor on this point, Charles makes the point that our focus should be geared towards how can we expose the strengths of people based on their innate abilities rather than trying to just improve the environment. There are still areas where the environment needs to improve in order to allow people to flourish. An example Charles constantly used was the Women's Rights Movement in the 1960s. This movement allowed women to get into fields that previously only seen applicable for men and receive equal education opportunities.

Based on Human Diversity, I'm pretty excited about the future for the world of geneticists. The next decade or so is looking really bright for the amount of data that can be utilized to help people who are suffering from a disease or an ailment. But with everything promising, polygenic scores could be used to make our society into a dystopia. One of things I'm really glad Charles brought up was the "New Upper Class" concept. By this, he means that currently, the upper class look down on people who don't have prestigious careers or lavishing lifestyles. Even if it's inadvertent, they build these societies and social dynamics where the "ordinary" American citizen is subhuman compared to them. And we see it every single day. What scares me the most about post-COVID-19 is how much these big companies are gonna automate certain positions. Even Charles mentioned it, UBI is becoming more and more of a necessity since the "New Upper Class" doesn't seem to value the "ordinary" American citizen.

To conclude, this book is ALOT to digest in one sitting. I'm probably going to re-read at some point, because there's a decent amount I feel like I didn't fully comprehend. And I know Charles Murray has a certain stigma about him, but I honestly think he wants to have a open and honest discussion about topics people don't feel comfortable with discussing. Throughout this whole book, Charles has been very deliberate with what he says, because he doesn't want to offend anybody, but he doesn't want to water down data points and test studies. So please if you plan on reading this book, have an open mind and discard your biases.
