# "Understanding the Dark Side of Human Nature" by Daniel Breyer

***Completed Reading July 31th 2020***

I got "Lucifer Effect" vibes when I was listening to this audiobook. Exploring the darkest realms of human nature has started to fascinate me ever since I've read "Lucifer Effect" and many philosophers have also dived in and questioned the moral turpitude of human nature. From Socrates to Marx, Daniel discusses how philosophers engulfed themselves in the morass of human mental and social habits.

Even though Daniel has his own beliefs for explaining certain human behaviors in different circumstances, he gives a pre-notice to the reader/listener to have an open-mind and build your own opinion for each circumstance. And all the topics he addresses don't have a "one-size-fit-all" solution because each situation is different for each person.

For example, one of the topics he discusses is "Revenge". Now from the Buddha perspective no matter how much someone has done you wrong or negatively effected your life, you should always forgive them with open arms. The irony of this is that Buddha, in his essence, can not feel any anger or animosity towards anyone in any situation. So from the Buddha perspective, there shouldn't be any need to forgive anyone, because no matter what said individual has done to you, you wouldn't harbor any ill-will to that person. Now on the other side we have Hammurabi's Code: eye for an eye. If the perpetrator does anything wrong to the victim, then the victim has the right to take something or inflict harm to the perpetrator of equal value. These are of course the extremes, but how do we handle this in society? And that's the really difficult solution, because everyone have different perspectives on how to handle each situation, but can we say one perspective is more appropriate than the other?

Daniel hits on a lot of different moral topics (such as can we blame a psychopath for their actions when they were born with this disorder) and in every section, I couldn't help but think back to "Lucifer Effect" and wonder are people only "good" based on the rules of society. And if we lived in a true anarchy, what would society be like? Would self-preservation and tribal communities take over for an altruistic society? Who knows...
