# "Letter to a Christian Nation" by Sam Harris

***Completed Reading August 5th 2020***

An oldie but a real goodie, Sam Harris, probably the person I revere the most outside of family, wrote this book in 2007. During this time, he was labelled as one of the four horsemen in the atheists movement and one of the many reasons why I became agnostic then atheist in high school. So, let's dive into his letter to evangelicals.

Sam hits on a lot of different areas when it comes to religion in general. From the fundamental, epistemological, and mortal standpoints, Sam doesn't shy away from asking questions that would rock any religious believer to their core if they really probe their beliefs. Such as, "How can your religion be correct compared to another religion?" or "If you're gonna be the best person via following a scripture, why not become a Jainist?"

In the present day, Sam has really taken a step back from the atheist crusade to focus on more spiritual endeavors, but I think his previous work and debates along with Christopher Hitchens, Lawrence Krauss, Richard Dawkins, and Daniel Dennett has really galvanized the atheist community to speak out and challenge the traditional American system. And it shows in the worldviews of millennials and gen Z around America.

Even though this book is "old", I think any religious believer who wants an alternative point of view from what they believe should at least read the preface of the book. I think everyone should drop their defenses when being challenged about their beliefs via dialogue and open-and-honest discussion.
