# "How will you measure your life?" By Clayton M. Christensen, James Allworth, and Karen Dillon

***Completed Reading September 10th 2020***

Listening to this audiobook, I was immediately captivated by the preface. I can't recall which author conveyed the emotional depravation of his high school classmates during their 30 year anniversary, but it encapsulates the entire theme of this book. And don't get me wrong, these people were the cream of the crop when it comes to financial and hierarchical success defined by America. A room full of CEOs, lawyers, engineers, hedge fund managers, and other immaculate professions. But said author noticed that most of his classmates weren't happy with their life. In fact, there was a void in their life that they tried to fill with career accomplishments and accolades.

And to be honest, that's the biggest abyss most professionals fall into. The "when I finally get XYZ position" or "when I finally make XXX/year" statements are very understandable goals. We all want to get to a point in our lives where we're financially independent. But what most people lose sight of are the other aspects of our lives that will harmonize ourselves (Think Yin/Yang and the practice of Buddhism). The most important asset we have is time. And how we allocate that time will determine our mental, spiritual, emotional, and physical wellbeing. And when we lose sight of managing our lives, that's when our lives manage us. This book talks about professionals that mitigated or worse jettisoned their connections to their spouses and children in exchange for extra hours at work to move up the corporate ladder. How even though these glamorous professions are besotting to outsiders, it could be depleting to the insiders. And this book explains how professionals can figure out what their purpose is and how they can find meaning in their work. In addition to that, it also corporates how businesses can provide fulfilling work for their employees and make their employees feel appreciated.

Also, there's a couple of chapters that made some suggestion about to parents about allowing their children to flourish. How handholding and overprotection of parents can lead to children being incapable of handling failure. And of course as parents, we don't want our kids to be disappointed and distraught by failure. It's a natural reaction to protect our offspring from pain physically and mentally. But are we really doing our children favors when we come to their aid for every obstacle that occlude them? It's an obvious answer, but it's something that we as parents have to constantly keep reminding ourselves about. We unconsciously act on our impulses to help when it's best to sit back and let the child drive. I know I've been doing more of that the older my son gets. And this is not saying to allow your child to be completely autonomous. It's just a balancing act that us parents have to do in order to have our child flourish now and into adulthood.

Overall, this book didn't hit on anything new for me. Other books and podcasts hit on the majority of subjects and methods covered in this book, but I still think it's worth a read/listen especially if you're a parent that has a career and trying to find that right balance.
