# "Fantasyland: How American Went Haywire, A 500-Year History" By Kurt Andersen

***Completed Reading October 15th 2020***

I've been chopping at the bit to write about this book from the first chapter. And all I can say is wow...just wow. From the early 1600s to now, Americans have been diving deeper and deeper into their own personal genjutsus. From Salem Witch Trails to the presidency of Donald Trump, it's been an evolving morass of misinformation and psuedofacts going through America. So I think the best way I can think of to give a succinct explanation of this book is to break up the major parts of Fantasyland in America. So let's dive in...
1. Religion
   
Religion (mainly Catholicism) has been the foundation of psuedoexplanation and psuedoscience in our country. We have Catholicism -> Protestantism -> Methodism -> Orthodoxy -> Mormonism -> New Age Christian. Each stage of Christianity has been born for different reasons but starts with influential charismatics that brings enough followers for word to spread about the new ideology. It wasn't until 1956 when Congress put into law and President Eisenhower approved the phrase "IN GOD WE TRUST" becaming the national motto of the U.S. As I've hammered multiple times in my criticism of religion, the main reason religious belief spreads is due to people following what they feel more comfortable with rather than being skeptical about any claims or beliefs that they have. This is gonna be a consistent theme in this post. "IF IT DOES NOT BREAK MY LEGS OR PICK MY POCKETS": My issue with religion has always been it's tax exemptions and infestation in government. I think it's honestly appalling that these charismatic preachers (such as Joel Osteen) make millions of dollars from susceptible followers, and the majority of that money doesn't go back into the community. If a cent of those tithing doesn't go into the church itself or an organization improving the world, it needs to be taxed. And for the government, Roe vs. Wade has a good potential of being overturned by the supreme court due to the biggest false narrative that a zygote is a conscious being. And even if it was true, the most crucial thing that these judges are forgetting about is: it's the woman's choice. It's her body and her future to decide, not yours. And we as a society should make the process as seamless and smooth for her as possible .

2. Fantasy vs. Reality

Don't get me wrong, some fantasies are amazing to have. I mean, think about video games. In what other medium can you literally become someone else for a couple of hours? To be in an alternate reality where the rules of society and limitations of our universe are chucked out the window. Or how about going to Disneyworld? Where you can be in all different parts of the world in one location? It's amazing...until people can't tell the difference between real and fantasy. This book made me realize that the country is currently in an abyss of conspiracy theories. And it seems like the most implausible and fantastical ones are gaining way more traction than the rational ones. Just look at QAnon. It's baffling and astonishing to me that a very similar conspiracy theory from the 1980s and 90s has been repackaged as QAnon just with different accusers. Just to give a brief summary, in the 1980s and 90s, there was a mass hysteria about a satanic cult abducting children around the country. The claims are too gruesome and outlandish to delve into, but there was little to no evidence of this happening. But since enough Americans believed it was true, the FBI got involved and some people actually got falsely accused of being involved in the cult which put them behind bars for multiple years until they were finally got let go due to lack of evidence and false witness statements. With QAnon members now, some of them have actually kidnapped and killed people they assumed were involved with these unproven rituals. "IF IT DOES NOT BREAK MY LEGS OR PICK MY POCKETS": It's quintessential that we as a society revisit the fantasylandscape. By this, I mean we need to discuss the right balance of fantasy vs. reality for different circumstances. When you are in a movie theater, the consequences of reality vs. fantasy are minimal to the real world. But when it comes to our politics, that's where the consequences can be dire based on our leaders perception of reality. Speaking of which...

3. Politics

It has becoming increasing more lucid that the United States political partisanship needs a revamp and it needs one now. In the midst of a pandemic, civil unrest, and potential economic collapse, both Democrats and Republicans can't even seem to find a middle ground on a stimulus bill that needed to have been released in late August. The bickering and blame game between the two parties has enormous ramifications for the average American citizen especially those who are currently unemployed. And this is just on the economic side. The fact that Trump constantly keeps downplaying coronavirus and completely ignoring the CDC and WHO advice about how to the reduce the spread of COVID is asinine and idiotic. Kurt Andersen dedicated a whole chapter about Trump and this book was published around 2016-2017, so I can only imagine what Kurt has to say about Trump now. This is literally the epitome of Fantasyland: "Don't trust experts! They have alternative motives! Fight against the elite! My truth is the truth!". My truth is the truth... that's the most daunting phrase against progressive discourse. When someone believe they are correct about something no matter the evidence or facts shown to them, that's when open discourse is unfeasible with that person. And sadly, that's too many Americans right now. How do you have an open conversation with someone so hidebound on their beliefs that evidence can't suffice? "IF IT DOES NOT BREAK MY LEGS OR PICK MY POCKETS": Clearly our country is in a bad way right now. And yes, some events that has happened to us was out of our control, but a decent amount of tragic incidents could have been avoided if we didn't follow the mantra of Fantasyland: "My truth is the truth"

In my opinion, I don't think America will ever get out of this crevasse. It's too engrained in our culture and even with Fantasyland America is surprisedly still flourishing. We still have the best universities for national and international students, our military is ubiquitous, and with the right tools and opportunities, anyone can make it in America. Until America gets toppled by another superpower, we will continue to bask in Fantasyland's glory since reality is not entertaining enough. There's nothing inherently wrong with Fantasyland. The issue is when fantasy seeps into areas of reality where it doesn't belong. As we've seen through history and even today, those fantasies have dire consequences on our reality.
