# Double-Header: "Team Human" by Douglas Rushkoff and "The Social Dilemma" by Tristian Harris (on Netflix).

***Completed Reading November 7th 2020***

Preface: I'm gonna be mainly focusing on the contents and message of "Team Human", but I think there is a strong correlation between Tristian and Douglas's messages when it pertains to social media and the isolating factors associated to it, so I decided to intertwine "The Social Dilemma" into that particular area when it comes to human individuality vs. community. Without further ado, let's begin!

It's funny how one book can have a similar theme to it from another book you've previously read. If you haven't seen my previous summary of "Fantasyland" by Kurt Anderson, feel free to look it up on my feed, but I would say that "Fantasyland" explains how we got to this divisive point in America while "Team Human" is where we're at and how we rescue ourselves.

Douglas emphasizes how America has slowly been moving away from the collective good to self-interest mentality especially in corporations. As we're all so perspicuously aware of, corporations cares more about profitability to investors than the well-being of citizens and the environment. From dismantling top soil for optimizing resources to selling people's data to other corporations, it's becoming more clear that there needs to be a dramatic change in the way our society operates. Douglas and Tristian both thinks that technology's end goals are the major reasons for all the divisiveness, manipulation, and corruption in the world. By 'end goal', I mean what these technologies were created to accomplish. For example, a social media platform goal is to maximize profit. The best path to do this is to retain their users attention as much as possible. How do you retain your user's attention? By blasting them with a bunch of dopamine boosting actions (e.g. bing from a FB notification, refresh page to show new content, notification about your ex). They utilize the lizard part of our brain to keep our attention on the screen as much as possible. While you're attention is focused on your friend's post, there's a couple of sponsors/advertisers injected somewhere on the screen.

If social media stayed within this 'attention grasping' bubble, I personally don't think it would be that big of a deal. Who can blame these platforms for trying to make money. But, and I think you see where I'm going with this, there are negative side effects that come from this model. If the algorithm main goal is to keep your attention on this app, it's gonna keep giving you content that makes you feel good. On the surface, you might be asking what's wrong with that? Well, what happens when millions of people stay silo'd to content that fits their mindset? You become apathetic about an alternative opinion at best. At worst, you become antagonistic towards opposing opinions. (Side note: On top of optimizing profits, they sell 'you' to external corporations, so these corporation's algorithms can match products and advertisements that best fit you. Just look up how Target got caught doing this exact thing without social media).

And that's where we are today. We're in a country where open discourse and conversations are more sparse every passing day. And it's becoming a huge problem. As I've said before, social interactions and communities are not a nice to have. It's a biological necessity for humans. And social media and video chats are not an effective replacement for human-to-human interactions, but that's where we are. Due to this, people go into a deeper abyss of using these social media sites are their main source of 'human interaction' and ,worse, news. QAnon have over a million followers that think these insane stories created by this organization are credible. And this only gonna get worse especially when it comes to propaganda. Just look at Russia's involvement in our previous election or how propaganda in Myanmar caused the deaths 24,000 Rohingyan people.

I think there is hope here though. It's clear that the system needs to be redesigned in the interest of humans and the environment for the long term. These problems have already been solved before. In fact, we have solutions to these problems right now. Climate change, work-life balance, xenophobia, misinformation, solitude, corporate oligarchy, healthcare, systemic racism, and deforestation all have solutions. Team human is all about implementing those solutions, so the next generations can live in a better society than we had to live in. We just gotta get out of our own way and help each other.

I like to end on a really good analogy Douglas Rushkoff made to life (I'm paraphrasing this[I'm throwing in the NPC part]):

Think of it like a video game. You have your NPCs and your players. Your NPCs do what they are told to do. They don't think for themselves, they do the same thing over and over again because that's what they are told to do. Then you have your players. Your players act more freely, but are confined to the rules of games. There will be winners and losers. Winners gain some resources while losers lose resources. At some point, some players will become cheaters. They'll break the rules, because they don't want to be confide to what the game tells them to do. Not only that, but they see loopholes that they can exploit to get a leg up in the game. Then there are players who gets tired of the game and want to augment the game with new levels or new maps. They start 'MOD'ing the game to add new elements and experiences to the game. If these modders get really good at it, they may be brought in by the game creators to actually make permanent changes to the game. At this point, the modder has become the programmer. Not only can they add new levels and NPCs, but they can now change the rules of the game if they so desire. And potentially make a completely new game.

Our society (like a game) is malleable. We don't have to live the way we do. People think taxes, government, corporate practices, working standards, etc. are permeant. They're not. We can change it our society so that Team Human is actually winning.
