# "Loneliness: Human Nature and the Need for Social Connection" By John T. Cacioppo & William Patrick

***Completed Reading December 2nd 2020***

Our society is at the apotheosis of social isolation, social surrogation, and loneliness. A drastic claim requires drastic evidence, and John and William explains why we got to this point in society, the multiple dangers of loneliness, and how we could climb our way out of this socially suffocating quicksand we call the "American Dream"

Let's start with the why. As our civilization and society started to expand, traditional tribal settings were set in the back burner for newer connections with our fellow humans. The problem is that with an imbalance of technological engagement, work vs. personal life, and surrogate forms of communication, the typical American (especially in their 20-30s) doesn't either feel the need to have social contact or can't find the time for it. It's pretty daunting that around 2008 (I'm assuming since this was the year the book was published) nearly 25% of men doesn't have a confidant to confide to. And it's only gonna get worse as people still think that social media suffices for human connection. And this has some real psychological, physical, and mental affects on a lonely person.

As researchers have seen from our primal cousins, the bonobos and chimpanzees, they exhibit similar social behaviors we humans do. Especially for chimpanzees, trust and altruism are extremely important in their society. And it makes sense why. If we can't trust each other, how can we progress as a tribe. That's why untrustworthy and mischievous chimpanzees gets cast out of the group. And that's the worst thing that could happen to them. When a chimpanzee gets disciplined by a superior, the chimp starts throwing up and exhibiting slight irrational behavior, because the psychological beatdown the chimp took takes a toll on multiple aspects of the chimp. And we humans are very similar. Multiple studies have shown that humans who more lonely have a tougher time solving problems that require executive control, have less control over bad behavior/habits, exhibit more aggressive behavior, are less sympathetic/empathetic, and so on... then their non-lonely counterparts. Even worse, in order to fill that void, they use social media as a surrogate, anthropomorphize objects or pets, and tend to distance themselves from people due to them thinking there is some aliment about them that off puts people.

If you read my previous posts, you know how I feel about religion. Set aside my biases, there is some extremely good aspects about the community built around religion that we need to incorporate into our society. To dig a little deeper, the human connections and community building that congregations offer really fills that lonely void a lot of people need. Daycare, volunteer work, Sunday prayer, sports leagues, church events, and so on. From this list alone, you can see why people rely on the church for their social fix. And to be honest, it's one the preeminent things about church. It build friendships, it build trust, and it builds a human connected community. Now, I'm not saying this is the only way to get human connection in this day in age, but I think our society should incorporate similar patterns into our neighborhoods and cities. I honestly feel if the government understood how dire loneliness is not just on an individual scale or even a societal scale but on a global scale, we would stop cutting funding on programs that improve sociability, and focus on augmenting those programs, so people will feel inclined to participate and build those much needed relationships.

There's a lot of work that need to be done to reverse the course of communal loneliness we're going down. And the solutions to get to this point requires all of us to do a little bit to make communication easier. Doing a small good deed (such as saying hi to someone). I know it sounds cliche (trust me I know), but these gregarious acts builds on each other. Studies have shown that if someone feels good, they are more likely to do good. But it has to start somewhere with someone. Not every charitable act requires a story.
