# "Democracy At Work: A Cure For Capitalism"

***Completed Reading December 16th 2020***

If it hasn't been abundantly clear to you by now, our system is completely broken for the middle and lower class American, and the epidemic has shined a massive light on an problem existing since the 1970s.

Richard Wolff splits this book into 3 parts:
1. How America got to where it is
2. The problems and flaws of capitalism and communism/socialism
3. How worker self-directed enterprises (WSDEs) will alleviate the economic problem we have in America


1. With America going through the worst financial period of it's time (The Great Depression), FDR had to come up with a program to reverse the course that unemployment and poverty was going down. In an attempt of FDR to appease both the Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO)/communists/socialist party and the capitalist party, FDR instituted a bunch of programs called "The New Deal". The deal included unions, bargaining for higher wages for workers, the upperclass in a higher tax bracket, social security, and better working conditions. There were more programs, but these were the major ones in conjunction to this topic. What followed was multiple serendipitous events that eventually got the US economy booming. From the 40s to early 70s, a middle class family could actually afford a house, tertiary education, and a vehicle without having to worry about debt. But then in the early 70s, a decent amount of programs from "The New Deal" started to be jettisoned. New regulations and laws were being instituted to reduce the taxes that big corporations would pay and programs that helped the average American citizen was being privatized. In addition, automation started booming and American jobs were being outsourced to other countries. With the bargaining power being removed, the median wage in America from the 1970s to today has been nearly constant while expenditures and commodities have been steadily increasing
2. As you can see, leaving capitalism unchecked, the elites profit off of the American workers. In a capitalist system, people and environmentally beneficial incentives are secondary in comparison to surplus and profits. On top of that, decisions of what gets produced, how to allocate the surplus, and direction of the enterprise is primarily decided by executives and board members. The producers have little to no say in the decisions that are made. What's even more daunting, these companies thrive on high unemployment (and true unemployment) in this type of system, because they have even more bargaining power. If employees want to go on strike or revolt against unjust operations in the company, they will just get fired, because there will be a copious amount of other people there to replace them.

What is considered "socialism" and "communism" today is disguised as state capitalism. Yeah, the corporations aren't privatized, but the producers still have little to no say in what happens in the company. Government officials decides how the market will be operated and what are the responsibilities of a corporation.
3. Richard Wolff's WSDE implementation is a fantastic remedy for the infection called capitalism. Take a hypothetical walk with me and Richard for a second: You are a worker in a WSDE. You do your usual day-to-day job, but every financial quarter, you and your contemporaries decides how to allocate that surplus the company made.

Instead of the surplus going to the executives and board, the producers and non-producers (enablers which encompasses your lawyers, cleaners, HR department, etc. These people don't have a direct impact on the product, but they play pivotal roles in keeping the company afloat) distributes that surplus in anyway they see fit. On top of that, the "executive board" is rotated at some cadence between the workers. This is decrease the possibility of self-interest decisions and get the workers experience at operating an business.

And since the producers and non-producers are actually from the community these WSDEs are located instead of some mansion in San Francisco, these workers will make decisions that will help their neighborhoods. Decisions won't be made for profit, but for the betterment of external and internal citizens.
-----------------------------------------------------------------
I would go into more aspects of WSDEs, but this post will transform into an article, so I'll stop here. As you can see though, we need more truly socialist (Marxists) programs to turn the current state of this country around. By the end of the month, around 2.4 - 4 million could be evicted from their home while Jeff Bezos and Elon Musk plays spaceship with their inordinate amounts of wealth. I'm not saying our economic system needs to turn completely socialist, but there are certain aspects of the system that needs to be socialized, and I think WSDE would be a great start in moving the country in that direction.
