# “Blueprint: The Evolutionary Origins of a Good Society” By Nicholas A Christakis

***Completed Reading February 15th 2021***

What makes us human compared to another species? Is it our emotions? Our conscious and sub-conscious minds that allow us to create and engineer complex mechanisms that other species don’t have the mental capacity to do? Is the left and right hemisphere of our brains that have isolated responsibilities but seems to work in harmony with each other? Well, yes and no based on what Nicholas details in this book.

When the reader reads the preface of the book, Nicholas wants said reader to know that he wants to explain how humans should see our society, evolutionary origins, our fellow humans, and other species as inherently good. He very aware that throughout human history, there have been horrific and abhorrent occurrences in human history, but we can’t perceive this as humans being a lost cause and must be inherently evil. Throughout this book, he shows how our emotions and social behavior have evolutionary origins, and how those same tendencies and social connections are seen in other primatial , ornithological, and cetacea species.

Nicholas starts off with how humans we can use real life case studies to investigate how humans interact in isolation from society (since of course it’s mortally reprehensible to take humans from society and put them in isolation unbeknownst to them). So he looks at different shipwrecks in human history where people have survived or records were written of the events. With these cases, each shipwreck really emphasized the importance of alltrustism, empathetic leadership, and cooperation. For example, Ernest Shackleton and his crew crashed on Antarctica. The crew could have thrown aspersions at one another, betrayed each other for ones own personal gain, and broken from the mental toll of being stranded. But with the leadership and empathetic nature of Shackleton and all crewmates helping each other and building a cohesive unit, every single crew member ended up escaping after 20 months of being stranded. That’s amazing! Now on the opposite side, look at the shipwreck of Pitcairn Island  with British explorer Captain James Cook. These British mutineers took their share of the land from the Tahitian people instead of seeing them as equals. After animosity had built to a boiling point for the Tahitian men, they ended up killing six of the British men. Even though the Shackleton crew knew each other, so it would obviously be easier to build comradery, the shipwreck in Pitcairn Island could have played out completely different if James Cook and his crew was hospitable to the local inhabitants rather than tyrannical.

Even though social scientists can’t rightfully put modern humans out into the wild, they can observe islanders living nomadic lives and other animal species for social cohesion and interactions. On the human side, one of the biggest cultural phenomena for social connection is how human partners and mating came into existence. From Nicholas and his contemporaries standpoint, most of human societies are monogamous for three reasons. The first is the male homosapien  needs certainty that the child is going to be his offspring. Otherwise, he has no real reason to watch after it. This correlates to the second reason: The female homosapien needs the male homosapien to ensure she can be taken care of while she takes nurtures her offspring. And the third reason is to keep a hospitable community for humans. By this, Nicholas means that if male homosapien followed the same cultural practices as gorilla or other polygynous primates, male homosapiens would basically kill or injure themselves to be the alpha male. Homosapiens are already physically inferior compared to our primate cousins, so infighting in our species would not have been optimal for our survival. With this, it explains why we as homosapiens have such a elaborate social society. Even human societies that had no way of communicating with each other follow very similar or exact patterns in terms of altruism, friendship, cooperation, and cohesion. And we can see similar patterns in other animals. For example, when an elephant of social group dies, the entire herd mourns that elephants death. Now, elephants might not have a concept of grief or sorrow like us humans do, but they have a similar response like us. And look at the social web for chimpanzees. Chimpanzees have their own “clicks” in terms of which other chimpanzees they hang out with the most, who they communicate with the most, who they groom the most, and so on. I think it’s pretty amazing that other species have similar social rituals that we humans do. This also proves that humans are not as unique as people think we are.

Finally, Nicholas speaks about genotypes, phenotypes, exophenotypes, and culture. A certain combination of genes can affect the phenotype of eye color. And the exophenotypes are heavily impacted by the inhabitant’s environment. Say for the Bajau people whom live on bars. Due to most their lives being on a boat, their physiology  adapted through generations to allow them to hold their breath underwater longer than humans in general. And of course culture is the passing of traditions and learned information from generation to generation. For a very good example of how the environment changed the phenotypical structure of a species, just look at the experiment of Russian geneticists Lyudmila Trut and Dimtri Belyaev on the domestication of wolves.

The biggest conundrum in the genetic field right now is nature/nurture. Nicholas (and I tend to agree) both build off each other. As we’ve seen, genes play a huge role in how we physiology, so I don’t see why it wouldn’t have a role in other aspects of our lives that seem incomprehensible. For example, how do you know for sure that your genes don’t impact your friends? There are studies that show identical twins have very similar social networks compared to fraternal twins and siblings. Or how much impact does your genes have on your general intelligence? Again, there are studies that show identical twins have very similar IQ scores. But as we have seen, the environment has an impact of our physiology too. What Nicholas is most concerned about though is that certain aspects of life is being completely judged by only the environment when genetics play some role in the occurrences that happen in our society. He thinks we’re missing a huge opportunity to learn and build a society to either compensate or co-exist with these genetic limitations. I do think it’s worth a conversation and some investigation, because this could be a key to solving some systemic problems built in our society.
