# “Creativity Inc.: Overcoming the Unseen Forces That Stand in the Way of True Inspiration” by Ed Catmull

***Completed Reading February 14th 2021***

I usually don’t write a synopsis on the audiobooks I listen to, but I’ll make an exception for this, because this book epitomizes the difference between a company that is truly innovative with the ability to extract the creative potential of their employees vs. one that uses buzz words and verisimilitudes with the veneer of “innovation”.

Ed Catmull dives into the timeline of Pixar from a small start-up with a nuance approach to animation using computer graphics to a partner of Disney. What I revere the most about Ed is his steadfast attitude about quality at Pixar. Throughout the book, there were times when Ed and his team could have easily sacrificed quality in order to get past a hurdle in the animation. But Ed knew that this would bite them further down the road and allow for practices he wouldn’t want to infest his corporation.

Ironically as I say Ed was steadfast in producing quality content, every other aspect of Ed and Pixar was anti intransigent. As you listen throughout the book, EVERY single inception of a movie idea in Pixar went through some form of peer evaluation and massive change in the story. And the thing I love about Pixar and its employees is that people understand that the feedback and scrutiny given to them was not an attack or combative. Conversely, people wanted the candor, because they knew the people that dished it out are trying to make them better! This is such a dream come true for me personally, because I wholeheartedly believe that you can only elevate your skills and expertise through feedback from your peers. Yeah, it may suck to hear candid feedback, but if your interlocutor truly is trying to boost your work with this feedback, the long-term value far outweighs the short-term emotional soreness.

Steve Jobs saw the potential of Pixar with their work ethic, attention to detail, and intransigent mindset for quality even with Pixar being a huge risk at the time, and poured his money into the company. There were times when Steve Jobs could have easily pulled the plug on Pixar and let the company die, but he knew he could trust Ed Catmull and Alvy Ray Smith due to their tenacity to shake the animation world with technology never seen or used before in animation.

There are a decent (if not an abundant) amount of companies that sap the creativity from their employees for short monetary gain. Or drop the quality of a product in order to reach the deadline of cardinal stakeholders. Ed introduces an expression called “The Hungry Beast and The Ugly Baby”. This metaphorical expression focuses on the concepts “Addressing the companies stakeholders and making profits” and “Introducing new and daring ideas into the company”. And there needs to be a balance between each one based on the circumstances. If a company feed the beast too much, the creative ideas of the employees gets discarded and ignored in favor of meeting deadlines. But if the company focuses too much on the ugly baby, the company is not meeting their stakeholders’ expectations which will result in the stakeholders looking for another enterprise to meet their needs. And when push come to shove for most companies, they would rather feed the beast which makes sense for the short term, but the long-term ramifications can be devastating to the company.

So to end, Ed is a phenomenal leader that is never satisfied with the current state of whatever entity he has to manage. This is epitomized with his response to the production of Toy Story 3 being so smooth. Ed realized that this meant the team was getting too comfortable. Comfortability feels good of course, but Ed saw that this meant the company wasn’t challenging itself. And Ed knew that you can’t be innovative if you’re not being challenged. There are multiple times in Pixar’s history where they could have coasted on their previous successes, but that was unacceptable for Ed. And if I’m portraying Ed as some obsessed and tyrannical leader who worked his team to the bone to meet his standards, that’s a misperception of what kind of leader he was. Ed always expected the best from his team, but he also knew to not push his team past their breaking point. There was times at Pixar when this has happened, and immediately, Ed made it his mission to never drive his people to their breaking point again to meet a deadline (hence where “The Hungry Beast and The Ugly Baby” partly comes from). Hell, Ed even had his own breaking points and had to take up mindful mediation to manage his mental state better.

There are companies that have the lavishing office space, open area, innovative lexicon, and cooperative/team building activities, but still are stagnant once they reach a certain size. These companies are like decorative eggs: Artistic, profound, mellifluous, and extravagant from the outside, but hollow, void, and shallow on the inside. It requires constant improvement, frequent candor sessions, and empathetic work environments in order to augment the company. Especially in the capitalist free market of America, if you’re stagnant, you’re sinking.
