# "The Four Horsemen: The Conversation that Sparked an Atheist Revolution" foreword by Stephen Fry

***Completed Watching March 16th 2021***

If you want to see the video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=n7IHU28aR2E...

Dan Dennett, Sam Harris, Richard Dawkins, and the late and great Christopher Hitchens had a in-depth discussion about religion in 2007 as the four horsemen of atheism. It's nostalgic to revisit my four heroes conversations as I remember my rebellious stages in high school as an transforming atheists. And the thing that really made an impression on me about their conversation in relation to today is how dogmatic and sectarian beliefs in any domain completely driven by faith can degrade even extirpate the entire society.

I want to focus on this topic for my synopsis, because this is the theme each interlocutor basically focused on to some degree and usually came back around to this. Back then, all four men separately got a lot of vitriol thrown at them for their criticism on jihadism, incidents happening in Palestine, and certain Catholic, Judaic, and Islamic beliefs in response to each of their respective books. That criticism came primarily from people they assumed were their allies (other non-believers). The scrutiny they received was mainly focused around their insensitivity to that culture and lack of respect towards a group of people. In their response, they felt the criticism was misguided and a misinterpretation of the content in their books. For example, Richard Dawkins feels like someone can participate in the rituals of a religion without believing it. He even sometimes join in prayer. And some people think that is hypocritical, but for him, it’s the same as being emotionally invested in fiction. You can still feel a connection to a fictional character without believing their character is based on a realistic person. That’s why Sam Harris practices spirituality and meditation. Sam Harris wants to dispel the illusion that a person can’t be spiritual without religion. For Christopher Hitchens, he had the most militaristic response by explaining that any totalitarian or absolutionistic religion is dangerous at any scale. And Dan Dennett came from the perspective of philosophy when it came to religion. One thing I really love about this discussion is that there was different perspectives on a topic, but each person respected each other and portrayed rationalism and evidence-based arguments is the best solution to improving our lives.

And I can tell from then to now, religious dogmatism has been dissipating overtime. And it’s fantastic that being an atheists or agnostic isn’t taboo anymore (at least from my perspective) which is progress in my book. And these four men really paved the way for the atheist revolution. But I think we’re in another dark cloud of dogmatism that is slowing eroding public discourse in our country. The most prevalent one right now is the left vs. the right. This dichotomy has become ubiquitous in our country. News media, social media, protests, riots, corporations, and so on. No one in the middle can escape it. On both sides of the aisle, information and evidence comes second to accusations and conspiracy theories. And now, people become silo’d to their own beliefs and tribe. And this is the biggest danger we have in our country right now. How do you convince someone of their false beliefs when they have their own “sources” they see as more valid? At some point, the left and the right were wrong about something. But instead of using this as an opportunity to announce their faults and take this error in understanding as a lesson to be more weary of making claims, each side will either vehemently defend their claims no matter how much evidence is given or completely ignore their previous claims as if it never was uttered. This is not the proper responses to new adverse information. We need a society to follow the practices of science. To throw away old beliefs and claims when new information contradicts them. It’s only going to get worse from here, because it’s extremely easy for people to say in an echo chamber that makes them feel comfortable.

I am very curious what Christopher Hitchens would have to say about the current state of the United States of America.
