# "The Precipice: Existential Risk and the Future of Humanity": By Toby Ord & Engineering The Apocalypse: By Rob Reid

***Completed Reading May 11th 2021***

This feels like an apropos time to discuss the existential crisis the human race is facing and solutions (suggested by Toby and Rob of course) to deter us from our own self-destruction. From climate change to weapons of mass destruction (WMDs), we have a myriad of ways to wipe out entire populations and societies from existence and it gets easier and more accessible everyday. And it should be apparent to everyone with response to COVID (at least in this country) that we’ll ill-prepared to handle a much grander crisis or pandemic. Just looking at our COVID response: our economy buckled to its knees; verisimilitude overtook scientific rhetoric from epidemiologists; government lethargic response to supporting its citizens cost lives and jobs. And that’s just to name a few

So what will happen if we had a crisis or pandemic worse than COVID? And Toby and Rob both references this very much possible scenario in our future. Geneticists around the globe with the right equipment and knowledge can reconstruct an extinct poxvirus. So think about if one of geneticists have mal-intent, create a variant of Ebola that is just as contagious as COVID-19, and release it out to the world? A biological weapon of mass destruction that kills 50% of it’s victims. Not to sound moot, but this is a real possibility in our future which our entire system is woefully unprepared for.

But as I mentioned earlier, there are solutions to prevent the demise of the human race. For one, we can give better funding to pandemic prevention programs (e.g. Project Hope and DARPA). We can also use synthetic biology for altruistic purposes to increase human longevity and defense against diseases. There’s already research being done to boost human immune systems by augmenting the performance of those immune cells.

I think the COVID-19 pandemic has shined a much needed light on the inefficiencies of our pandemic response system around the world. We have made great strides as a human race, but those strides have also led us to potential paths of no return. Even in our past, we have a decent amount of nuclear close calls that could have easily cost millions of lives and long lasting repercussions. So we must better prepare ourselves as a human race to handle pandemics. Because otherwise, we might not be able to rebound from it.
