# "Management: Tasks, Responsibilities, Practices" by Peter F. Drucker

***Completed Reading June 4th 2021***

“What is our business and what should it be?” Peter uses this idiom throughout every section of this book, and it seems like more companies need to ask this question on a regular basis. In this 800+ page book, Peter does a excruciating deep dive in almost every aspect of top-management in every sized organization. From what type of production line a business should be focused on to what is the appropriate size for a particular business, Peter hits on so many points, it’s gonna be a challenge to try to make it succinct in a synopsis, but I’ll do my best.

As mentioned before, top management should always ask the question: “What is our business and what should it be?”, because this question opens pandora’s box on establishing the business. There’s a plethora of domains and sections this question can focus on, but I’m just gonna briefly talk about six areas: "Private vs. Public”, “Areas of Management”, “Principles of Production”, “Principles of Organizations”, “Proper Size of Company”, and “Innovation"

## Private vs. Public:

When Peter mentions private vs public companies, it’s pretty self-explanatory. But what’s not self-explanatory is how drastically different each is ran. For a private organization, top-management has to make a business that is profitable. If not, it ceases to exist. So there’s a higher risk of failure especially in a market with fierce competition, but there’s a lot more freedom in a private institution. And there’s a lot more opportunity for innovation (I’ll get back to this later in the post). On the contrary for the public institution, there’s little risk of failure, because these institutions are usually backed by government institutions and has social purposes for it’s existence. And they’re given a budget based on predetermined metrics. But that's where creativity and innovation run into problems in a public institution. Since the top-management is beholden to meet certain expectations already predetermined for them, they have no real incentive to innovate let alone rock the book with introducing new ideas and processes especially for an established institution. Usually the only time innovation can seep into public institutions is when an incubation occurs for solving an new problem in the nation/society.

## Areas of Management:

There are three areas of management "Managing Company profits”, "Managing workers/working”, and "Managing social responsibility/impact”. These all seem like silo’d branches of management, but they heavily intertwine with each other. For a company to have an attractive business to make profits, they need to understand the market they’re trying to build off of it. This is where social responsibility and impact comes into play. A majority of businesses that succeeds understands there’s a social niche that can be exploited with the right product. Of course, Peter suggests their products benefit the consumer rather than cause harm which isn’t always the case for businesses' success (e.g. Exxon Mobile, Social Media Platforms), but that’s another discussion for another day. And for the right product to be incepted, you’ll need workers to not only build said product but bring their own insights to how to improve the product. Especially in our modern society, knowledge workers needs to have much more responsibility over the products/inventions they build or potential to even incept from scratch.

## Principles of Production:

There are four principles of production: "Unique-product production”, "Rigid mass production”, "Flexible mass production”, and "Process Production”. Unique product production is literally one product for one type of consumer in a single market. The closest example of this that I can think of that was mentioned in the book is the early years of the Bell Telephone Company. They were just responsible for providing telecommunication lines throughout the United States. Rigid mass production is a line of products for multiple consumers that has little to no change in the end product. Flexible mass production is very similar to rigid mass production except the end product can be adjusted based on the consumers needs. So for example, if one automobile company follows the rigid mass production, they’ll make the same model vehicle for all the consumers in that particular market. On the contrary, if the automobile company follows the flexible mass production model, the model vehicle will have the same specs and design, but there can be adjustments to the end product (i.e. if the user needs leather seats over wool). The most utilized one by today standards is the Process Production model. This is the dynamic changes of the product from inception to stores/vendors. This is where market research is used heavily to figure out how to adjust the product to get the competitive edge over the competition and attract consumers in the market.

## Principles of Organizations:

There are five principles of organizations: "Centralized Team”, "Centralized Functional”, "Federal Principle (Decentralization)”, "Simulated Decentralization”, and "Systems Structure”. Centralized Team Organization is the most basic principle. It can only be used effectively in a small sized business, because the team is petite enough to communicate between each other. Top-management can communicate with the workers effectively without the need to go through different channels. Everyone knows each other on a personal level. The level (usually) is centralized functional organization. This is when an institution gets to a size that makes it difficult to have effective communication on a personal level between top-management and workers, so communication has to go through channels. That’s when middle managers and directors get involved and proper protocols and practices need to be introduced to ensure clarity of the company’s business exists and is effective. When a company gets to a size where they need to split their company into divisions, there are two types of principles that come into play. Federal Principle creates decentralization within an organization. This is when the CEO/Owner of the company needs to relinquish some  responsibility to trusted top-management officers in their company, because the company is too big for one person to understand every aspect of it. At this point, each top-management officer will have complete autonomy over their section of the company and report back to the CEO/Owner with the appropriate updates and debriefs. Simulated Decentralization is slightly different as this is usually artificially made decentralization. The closest example of this was NASA in the 1950s (I think). NASA couldn’t branch into their own divisions, because NASA didn’t necessarily have a market or consumer to appease, but it was a humongous organization. So they had to artificially split departments based on projects. And this principle is very similar to Systems Structure. But instead of building separate teams based on projects, Systems Structure built teams out of different organizations under the main companies umbrella.

## Proper Size of the Company:

As I’ve alluded to in previous sections, the size of company can range from small to multinational. Each one have their own unique challenges and characteristics, but there’s one question a bunch of companies don’t ask when attempting to grow, “Are we ready for the next growth spurt?” This is a heavy question, because there’s an agglomeration of factors that needs to be considered for this question to be fully answered. For instance, “Is our current market ready for that growth?”, “Do we have the resources for the next level?”, “Is the CEO/Owner ready to relinquish some responsibilities/power if necessary to make the push?”, “Do we have a roadmap for what growth will look?”. There’s so many more questions to be asked especially if a company is planning on being multinational such as: “What are the laws and regulations for the country we’re planning on setting up a new business in?”, “What practices do we need to adjust to match the culture of said country?”, “What will top-management look like in this new country?”. There’s a ton of examples throughout this book and history where a business failed due to not properly understanding what growth meant to their business and their purpose.

## Innovation:

The one word companies love to use is “Innovation”. And honestly from reading what Peter defines as “Innovation”, I think companies are misdirecting where innovation should be focused on. Innovation comes from needs of the consumer and market, not from the “new” technology that is being built. Amazing tech doesn’t mean anything if the consumer doesn’t have much use for it. Another thing I think is a misconception of innovative products is how soon it makes a bang in the market. As Malcolm Gladwell mentioned in his book “Outliers”, it takes time for the nuance product or idea to have solid grounding with people. There’s the “testers” who will try it out for the first time. Then if it gets past that phase, there’s the “newcomers” who will praise it, but your average consumer won’t pay the product/idea any mind. Then if it gets past that phase, then the general audience will come around to using your product. This usually takes years for the public to adopt the innovative product (and that's if it can survive that long). So that’s the hard part for the business. They have to balance out the “today” from the “tomorrow”. And with the mentality of most corporations trying to appease shareholders and investors who solely care about the short ROI, innovation gets shelved for the now sadly.

There’s WAY MORE insightful information in the book. Even though this book was published in 1973, it’s still very much relevant to today’s business climate. And especially when Peter mentions the social impact a lot of businesses need to be responsible for. I would love to know what Peter’s critics of today’s business would be if he was still alive today.
