# “Conscious: A Brief Guide to the Fundamental Mystery of the Mind” By Annaka Harris

***Completed Reading July 5th 2021***

Have you ever wondered what makes you… you? What is your “self” as a person, an entity, or as a contributor to society? What makes you decide to do you thing over another or to be enamored by one hobby but completely aloof to another? Well, we have some answers on a biological, environmental, and evolutionary scale, but what if we go deeper? What I mean is the realm of consciousness?

Annaka Harris and her contemporaries do a deep dive into the domain of consciousness. What makes an entity conscious vs. unconscious? Is all forms of matter conscious, but we multi-organisms have transcended that realm into free thought and free-will?

Well, there’s multiple facets to these type of questions. For example, we’ve all encountered someone who has clearly become a different “self”. Some incident has happened that changed their neurological and/or psychological blueprint where this “new” associate is unrecognizable from our previous experiences with them. Now, does this means this person’s conscious has been altered? Or do we just chalk that up to some alteration in the brain where consciousness has no involvement. We even see this is mammals too. For example, if you look up the taxonomy worm (toxocara cati), this parasite can leech on to any mammal, but in order for the worm to reproduce, they have to be in the intestines of a cat. So, these worms will infect the brain of a rat, so the rat will get a charge of dopamine whenever in runs towards a cat surely ending in its demise and in the belly of the feline. Or how about the emerald cockroach wasp (Ampulex compressa) which will sting a cockroach to at first completely paralyze it. Then use the venom in the sting to completely take over the neurological network of the cockroach to basically make it a “zombie” which the wasp’s larvae can feed on the body of said cockroach until it becomes an adult and repeat the cycle all over again.

And the hardest thing to answer for consciousness is where is the line for what makes an entity conscious vs unconscious. One of the theories that came out of that question was panpsychism. Panpsychism in essence means that any form of matter has consciousness. This makes the typical human feel queasy, because we usually consciousness to feelings and senses. If we keep to that parochial mindset, a lot of humans will feel hesitant to even walk on the ground. But I think it does taking some insightful digging to understand panpsychism. From my point of view (and I’m still trying to wrap my head around it), it’s the most basic form of consciousness. And not the way we think of typical consciousness, but on the level of physical science as not what matter is, but what matter does. For example, any chemist can tell you what an electron is on an atomic scale. But what is the intrinsic nature of an election. We know why electron exhibits the behavior it does, but we’re completely baffled when if comes to what is the nature of an electron. And maybe that’s what the consciousness of an electron means. We have the same questions when it comes to human consciousness.

Annaka Harris and her colleagues leaves the readers with a lot more questions than answers. And that’s honestly how it should be with consciousness as it is right now. There’s more to do with trying to get to the root (or at the surface) of the origins of consciousness, and it requires questions like these to hopefully open the pandora’s box of the mysteries of the conscious.
