# “The Phoenix Project” by Gene Kim, Kevin Behr, and George Spafford

***Completed Reading June 30th 2021***

I’m not gonna lie when I first read this book, I thought the story was real haha. One of my buddies set me straight about the legitimacy of the story. That would explain some of the characters being a little bit over-exaggerated with their behavior especially in a professional setting. And on top of that for a large-scale enterprise on-prem monolithic application to transform into a cloud infrastructure application following proper DevOps patterns in a handful of months is a little bit of a stretch. Sorry Big Corp but it’s not easy to make an infrastructural and cultural shift like that. But enough with my nonsensical diatribe, let’s dive into the book.

Our “protagonist” Bill has been promoted (forcefully) into the role of VP of Technology. When Bill takes on this intrepid role, nothing could have prepared him for the dilapidated and ruptured culture in the tech department. Each department in tech (Development, Security, IT, and Operations) were so siloed and disjointed that no department even knew what the other department was doing. So whenever a big release was due at the end of the quarter, each department would deploy their releases, but no one knew if each release would integrate with the other departments releases. So these vicissitudes would end up leading to all-nighters, prod bugs, “heroic” prod fixes, and (worst of all) a non-functional application. As you could imagine, this infuriated customers, cost legal and auditing issues, and cost Parts Unlimited money.

But one day, Bill got a chance to talk to a “sage” named Erik who was a board member of Parts Unlimited and hilariously butchers people’s names in the meetings he’s involved in. Erik teaches Bill “The Three Ways of DevOps”
1. The Principles of Flow
2. The Principles of Feedback
3. The Principles of Continual Learning and Experimentation
   
To make this post succinct, Bill gradually learns and implements these principles into Parts Unlimited. After a bunch of serendipitous events, Parts Unlimited ends up doing a 180 and completely revamping their culture and technical infrastructure.

At the end, the authors actually a deep dive into each of the “Ways of DevOps” which I highly recommend anybody read. You don’t need to be a developer to read this book, because the general message and lessons here can be applied to multiple domains and businesses.
