# "How to Avoid A Climate Disaster: The Solution we have to and the Breakthroughs We Need" by Bill Gates

***Completed Reading July 23rd 2021***

Ok… where do I even start… do I start with the serendipitous innovations that has allowed for our current lifestyle or the dire vicissitudes coming our way? Let’s start on a positive note.

We as a human race have accomplished geological, ecological, technological, and economical advancements in a matter of a century. We should be very proud of what we have succeeded at. From curing the most deadly diseases in human history (e.g polio, scurvy, swine flu, etc…) to people like Norman Borlaug who possesses the moniker of “The father of the Green Revolution” who literally saved over a billion people from starvation, humans always seems to overcome adversity to improve the future generations. And I can’t wait to participate in the accomplishments that is destined for AI and space exploration (i.e. a super-earth was recently discovered in our Milky Way named TOI-561b).

So it really concerns Bill Gates and me that we have severely underprepared for the tragedies that await us due to climate change. Even worse, we haven’t been proactive enough to counteract our carbon footprint on the earth. Just soak in this for a second, every year, we emit 51 BILLION TONS OF GREENHOUSE GASES INTO OUR ATMOSPHERE!!!! Let that sink..., and for decades, climate scientists have warned about the dangers we will face if we refuse to change our behavior. And now that time has come. Increased forest fires, more tumultuous tsunamis and hurricanes, melting polar ice caps, raising sea levels, water droughts, intense heat waves… shall I keep going? We put corporate hindsight and quick ROI before long term ecological innovation, and now we’re in a state where we have no choice but to act. Another reason why unregulated capitalism is a hindrance to the progress of society. We have to basically get from 51 billion tons of greenhouse gases to ZERO before 2050 (and this is being conservative).

So what do we do about this situation? Well, we have a plethora of existing technologies we can utilize right now (e.g. Making seaweed farms; using wind/solar/hydrogen/nuclear power for electricity; nuclear fission/fusion energy). But there are setbacks that stand in the way of these technologies from being incorporated into our society. And these are usually the three main reasons why adoption is sluggish:
1. Green Premium is too high
2. Intermittency
3. A major lifestyle change for citizens in developed countries

Green Premium is basically the difference between the price of the clean technology and the greenhouse gas one. For example, if jet biofuel cost $6/gal and the regular jet fuel cost $2/gal, then the green premium for jet fuel would be $4/gal. And sadly since we still live in a world where capitalism drives decision making, corporations will be less likely to adopt jet biofuel since it will cut into their bottom lines. On top of that, less developed countries will have a difficult time switching over to clean technology if the green premium is too high because they simply can’t afford it.

Intermittency becomes a big problem for technology such as wind and solar power. There’s only a set amount of time where wind turbines and solar panels will be utilized since their sources of power comes from nature. So we’ll need alternative sources of power to maintain our current wattage output.

A decent amount of these clean technologies are not only expensive (as mentioned earlier), but they become inconvenient for the average citizen in a developed country. Electric vehicles are getting better, but it still takes 12 hours to charge the battery vs. a regular vehicle which takes at most 5 minutes to fill the tank. On top of that, EVs don’t go long distances. And this is just one example.

In addition to the roadblocks for clean technology, people don’t realize how ubiquitous greenhouse gases are. Just think of how much cement, steel, plastic, wood, and oil we use. All have a carbon footprint. Hell, even in agriculture, fertilizer and cow dune (yes when cows flatulate) has a carbon footprint. And this is why it’s so important biotechnology get proper funding. Not only that, but private corporations who play a huge part in greenhouse emissions need to dedicate much more resources to R&D in biotechnology.

To end this post, we all have a responsibility to combating climate change and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. You don’t have to be in STEM, a politican, or an influencer to make a difference. Use social media to make people are. Talk to your family about it. If you have some political power within your company, speak to the people in power about how they can reduce or improve their carbon footprint. Talk your local government official about ways to enforce laws and regulations in your community to use clean technology. This requires all of us to do our part, because time has literally ran out. And now we’re in a reactive phase. The world wasn’t prepared for COVID-19. It may the end of the human race if we’re not prepared for the repercussions of climate change.
