# "Evicted: Poverty and Profit in the American City" by Matthew Desmond

***Completed Reading August 18th 2021***

In this dystopian country where the dissipation of the middle class and the severe dichotomy between the rich and poor becomes more pervasive, evictions are just another unfortunate outcome of this capitalist society. And it shouldn’t be a surprise the primary ethnic group impacted by evictions are Black Americans (mainly women). While black men were being incarcerated for various crimes, black women had to become a single parent trying to keep their heads above water. And with the terrible repercussions that come from an eviction record, these women were forgotten and crewed up by a system that was supposed to help them.

Matthew Desmond follows multiple people from Milwaukee whom all went through an eviction. The way he sets up the book, it’s split into three parts. The first is the pre-eviction, the second is the actual eviction, and the third is the post-eviction. Each person has their own unique story for what got them to become evicted, why their landlord ended up evicting them, and how did they respond to the eviction. I sort of like the fact that Desmond was unbiased in portraying the landlords. He could have easily made them into vulgar antagonists that care more about extorting money from their desolate tenants to make a quick buck (and honestly there are times where this happens). But he just delivers the story as is. And by this, I mean each “character” has their own problems, their own vices, their own desires, and their own actions. As the reader, I definitely felt the landlord was put into a bind with some of their tenants, because at the end of the day, it’s their business. There were some favoritism, but you can understand why the landlord had to make an eviction even when they didn’t want to.

The most salient repeated occurrence that stood out to me was the horrific bind some female tenants found themselves in terms of physical abuse they had to endure from their partner. If they were to call the cops on their abuser, the police would hold the landlord liable for any incidents that occurred since technically the incident occurred on the landlord’s property. Which would most likely cause the landlord to get a court order to evict said tenant. So the female tenant has to either deal with being beaten by her abuser or get evicted and have an eviction on her record which will make it more difficult to get into another rental unit.

But with any problem, there are solutions and Desmond laid out a decent amount. For one, we can just have universal vouchers for people below a certain income. This will hopefully be adjusted with the rise of rental prices. Another solution is Affordable Housing programs that is accessible to a much broader range of people. As of the publication of his book, 2 out of every 3 people who are low-income and are renting don’t have any form of assistance. And as you will see when you read this book, nearly 80% of their monthly income goes straight to their rent payments (this is excluding utilities and internet btw). How can anyone honestly live reasonably when 80% of their monthly check goes to keeping a roof over their heads? There are developed and semi-developed countries that have much more elaborate and dilated Affordable Housing programs that not only allow the majority of their low-income citizens to live in houses but still provides landlords with their monthly rent.

I’m curious to see what Desmond’s opinion is on the current eviction moratorium and the impending end to it. If the moratorium were to end today, millions of Americans around the country would be evicted. And from reading how the current system is configured, not many would be getting any government assistance to help them find affordable housing. A part of feeling like a member of society is having a place you can call your own. Your home is your sanctuary. Your home is where you can relax and be away from all the noise of the world. And a home makes your feel like you belong. Our government have to ask the question: “Are we ok with dehumanizing people by making them homeless?” People are people. And a home should a given right for American citizens.
