# “The Master and His Emissary: The Divided Brain and the Making of the Western World” By Iain McGilchrist

***Completed Reading October 27th 2021***

I have a mixed feeling about this book to honest. This is honestly the first book where I felt paradoxically confused but understanding of Iain’s message about this book. When I first picked up this book, I initially thought this was focused on the neurological and psychological differences between the left and right hemispheres. And the first section of this book does focus on those “differences”. And I put differences in quotes, because there’s a decent amount of overlap between the responsibilities of the left vs right hemisphere. But what I was not prepared for was the sheer amount of philosophical rhetoric and anecdotes. Iain dives back as far as Ancient Greece with the transformation of the hemisphere’s influence over our society.

So to start, let’s discuss the neurological and psychological responsibilities of the left and right hemispheres (or primary source of neurological influence). The right hemisphere is primarily responsible for general understanding of a breadth of topics. So whenever we learn something completely foreign to us, the right hemisphere is the initial engager of this new information. Of course, the right hemisphere doesn’t completely understand this, so the left hemisphere the deep dive and fragmenting the parts of these topics into understandable parts.

There have been multiple studies on victims of strokes or brain hemorrhages that show how if a part of the right or left hemisphere has been impaired or damaged, certain motor or memory functions are also impaired. For example, there was an experiment where researchers showed a tree to people with some form of damage to each hemisphere. If the damage occurred on the right hemisphere, the person could only draw parts of the tree (i.e. a leaf, a trunk, a branch, etc.). And vice versa, the person could draw the entire tree, but couldn’t describe in detail each part.

Iain really drives home in the first part why the right hemisphere needs more appreciation and recognition than the left hemisphere. The experiment I referred is one of many experiments, and there is an argument to made that the right hemisphere has a more prevalent influence on an individuals life vs. the left hemisphere. And this is the crux of Iain’s concern with modern society.

Iain references Aton of greek philosophers the right hemisphere oriented Heraclitus to the more left hemisphere oriented Pythagoras. And I don’t mean it as if these Greek philosophers were aware of the hemispheres of our brain, but more in the artisan and poetic sense. The style of writing leaned to a particular hemispheric preference (such as Plato’s “Thinking - the taiking of the soul with itself” or Pythagoras aggregation of geometry with philosophy). In Iain’s point of view, there was nice balance between the two hemispheres at this time.

Then to the Romantic era philosophers like Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Immanuel Kant which focused on emotional self-awareness and bettering the human condition. This was also the birth of Enlightenment where human empathy and community became more prevalent which leans to the right hemisphere.

Then we get to modernism. This where I’m sort of at odds with Iain, because he does bring up valid points that modern society, especially Western society, does lean heavily towards the left hemisphere due to a rise in individualism and materialism. In addition, the decline in religion and spirituality are on the decline since more people need concrete understandable data points to be convinced of something outside the realm of society. But where I disagree is that the hemispheres’ massive influence. In my opinion, the improvement of quality of life, the growth of technology after the Industrial Revolution, and globalization are the main proponents for the change in mentality and practices in society. The Greeks and Romans created such metaphorical and phantasmagorical  explanations for their experiences because  of the lack of data compared to modern day.

If you’re expecting a neurological dive in each hemisphere from this book, I wouldn’t recommend it as much as other books about our hemispheres. But if you looking for a deep dive into the philosophical differences between the left and right hemisphere, you should definitely give this book a read!
