# “Invisible Women: Data Bias in a World Designed for Men“ By Caroline Criado Perez

***Completed Reading November 7th 2021***

People will have a ton of different opinions about this book. I can definitely see different people’s responses range from “This book is a crock of shit that makes outrageous claims” to “Yes! More people need to be aware of this” (Just look at the comments about the book on “goodreads”. For me personally, I lean more towards the more people should be aware of the lack of data representation for women. And here’s why:

Honestly, at first, I thought Caroline was gonna try to focus on invoking an emotional response from the reader which I really dislike in anything I read. I vehemently dislike news outlets, politics, and social media for this exact reason. And she sort of started the book off with that tone which elicited an eyerolling and disgruntled response. But then, she started talking about data points and relaying evidence for how women are being underrepresented in the data.

And by this, I mean there are a decent amount of products that are not adjusted or built for women, because they were simply not included in the trials or tests. So for example, think of the smartphone. For a man my size, the smartphone size is great. It fits in my pockets and I can hold it with one hand. But what about for your average woman? Since women’s jeans have smaller pockets, the average smartphone can’t fit in their pockets. Plus since the average woman’s hand size is smaller than the average man’s, they have to use two hands for typing.

Sure, that might seem a minuscule endeavor, but there are a multitude of other products that have the same issue. Nonadjustable VR headsets, tools, farming equipment/machinery, etc… This also extends to the medical field with how much the average woman should be prescribed vs. the average male. And Caroline also brought the comfortability and accessibility of male vs female contraceptives.

Caroline goes over a lot more topics in her book where women are not properly represented vs. their male counterparts.

For anyone who is reserved about reading this book, just try to listen to it with an open mind. I really don’t expect people to agree with every point Caroline has brought up, because they run across a myriad of industries, but we need to be open to listen to opinions/facts we don’t necessarily agree with. Even as a staunch Atheist, I’ll listen to a sermon by Joel Osteen (every blue moon). I sure as hell don’t agree with everything is says but in order for me to understand another worldview, I have to be open to what someone else is saying. Give the book a try and please let me know what you think.
