# “Fooled by Randomness: The Hidden Role of Chance in Life and in the Markets” by Nassim Nicholas Taleb

***Completed Reading December 3rd 2021***

If I told you that all billionaires fortunes were mainly based on pure luck, would you call bullshit? Elon Musk, Mark Zuckerberg, Warren Buffet, Jeff Bezos, etc. etc. are the apotheosis of success and given the moniker of “Capitalism’s prodigal sons”. If you take what the media and new outlets tell you, these billionaires pulled themselves up from their bootstraps and worked harder than you to gain their success. Their endless grind and intrepid risk-taking paid off while others simply didn’t have the same behavior and mentality. As Nassim Taleb will explain in his book, randomness has more impact on multiple aspects of our lives than people give credence to.

Nassim Taleb was a trader early on in his career. And he was just as pious as the next trader with economic algorithms to help get an upper-hand on the “best” investment strategies and options. But his approach was different from those of his more intrepid colleagues. You see, Nassim was aware that these economic calculations leaned heavily on past performance/events on the market. And to Nassim, it seemed very odd that barely any of his colleagues factored in randomness especially with similar catastrophic events of former years that caused the economy to buckle to its knees. Of course, no one can be clairvoyant to anticipate these disastrous events, but traders can definitely insulate themselves from enormous losses with stop-losses and stop-limited. But to Nassim surprise, barely any of fellow traders used these risk mitigating strategies.

And it became more clear to Nassim as his career progressed on that these traders got so enamored with their strategies or positions that they couldn’t see glaring evidence that they should cut their losses and move on. As a matter of fact, they doubled-down on their pious beliefs and started either finding other reasons (usually noise) for fortunes to turn or blame others for why the strategy wasn’t working. Not only could they not accept that they made a mistake, but they couldn’t see that their biases completely took over for rational evidence.

And that’s basically the overarching theme of this book. We humans are emotional creatures that will bypass logical and researched supported evidence in favor our biases no matter how wrong we are. And Nassim hinted on this a little bit, but it’s truly a shame in our society that people can’t say they made a mistake in the past and want to reevaluate their stance on a topic. They get pegged as a charlatan, liar, weak, untrustworthy, wishy-washy. Of course, there are some people who manipulate people to get ahead in life, and it’s a good thing most human brains are wired to sniff out deceitful tactics like that, but we have to be open to the fact that when an individual receives new information they were unaware of before that their opinions can change. It’s part of being human, but again emotions get the better of us humans and we let that dictate our behavior rather than a rational approach.

This book made me really rethink how traders and hedge fund managers operate to be honest. Like, you’d think after the “1995 Dotcom Bubble”; “2007 Subprime Mortgage Loan Crisis”; and most recently “2020 Coronavirus Pandemic”, these traders would be better at having risk management strategies for these type of situation even if they are rare. As Nassim Taleb mentions, it makes more logical sense to have a bunch of small losses but one massive payoff than a bunch of small wins but one massive loss that not only cost you millions of dollars but your job at the end of the day.
