# "Nudge: The Final Edition" by Richard H. Thaler and Cass R. Sunstein

***Completed Reading January 14th 2022***

What’s the first thing you think about when you hear “Libertarian Paternalism”?  Honestly, when Richard and Cass asked the reader (me) what my first thoughts were when I heard that, I was like “Well… liberty means freedom and paternity mean pertaining to fathers. So… freedom for fathers?” (I know, I’m dumb). But the phrase basically means that private and public institutions can affect human behavior while still allowing freedom of choice.

And I’ve heard about “nudging” people before reading this book, so my preconceived assumptions about what nudge meant was to manipulate someone’s behavior without them even realizing it. On the contrary, nudge is not malicious and it can be subtle or blatant which really surprised me, but I was under the assumption that it was supposed to be surreptitious.

“Nudge” is a minor addition to a system/process that leans users to a particular outcome that benefits the user. So for example, if you wanted to combat obesity in a school, you can move the salad bar at the front of the school line while the fatty foods and desserts are the last items in the line. Or have a mirror to the opposite side of the lunch room, so the students can see themselves and feel less inclined to consume more than necessary if they’re overweight. There’s so many nudges in our lives that we don’t even realize it. For instance, are you an organ donor by choice? By this, I mean did you actively opt into being an organ donor or did the DMV just automatically added organ donor on your license and maybe lethargically ask you if you wanted to be a donor or not? Or how about your retirement plan. Did you actively choose the amount you want to contribute or did the 401K service/provider set a default amount you should contribute?

On the opposite spectrum, “Sludge” is executed like a “nudge” but it actually deteriorates the quality of life for the user. For instance, beer and (used to be) cigarette commercials that display happy actors having the times of their lives. Or political figureheads restricting (or prohibiting) mail-in ballots or mobile voting. It’s actually crazy how it will take a Swedish citizen 5-10 minutes to file their taxes, but take us Americans 2-3 hours due to the amount of “sludge” we have in our taxation system.

This is a very straightforward book, but it really shines a light on how easy it is to improve or impair the lives of people with minor adjustments to a process/system. Well worth a read!
