# "Never Lose a Customer Again: Turn Any Sale Into LifeLong Loyalty in 100 Days” By Joey Coleman

***Completed Reading March 3rd 2022***

We’ve all been through a terrible customer experience at some point in our lives (if you’re old enough). Most of us grimace when we have to go to the DMV. Or how about when we have to travel via an airline, wait in line at security for 30+ minutes (and that’s without rush hour), and arrive at your gate only to discover your flight is cancelled/delayed without any prior warning.

I could go through a plethora of morbid customer experiences the average person has to deal with throughout their life, so would you run your business like that? Of course you won’t (unless you’re some type of sociopathic typhoon). And neither do any business owner, but something happens in the typical business lifecycle where the customer experience plays second-fiddle to the bottom line. And it’s a real shame, because this pivot ends up being a detriment to the business in the long run unless they have a monopoly over a domain (looking at you EA Sports).

This book not only introduces strategies for any business at any size at any point in their life cycle to keep the customer experience functional but Joey shows the reader how to completely WOW the customer to the point of being an avid advocate for a lifetime. Joey has an eight stage process to turn a potential customer into a raving fanatic of your product:
1. Assess
2. Admit
3. Affirm
4. Activate
5. Acclimate
6. Accomplish
7. Adopt
8. Advocate
   
One of the most consistent things I saw while reading through each of the stages was how to make the customer feel important. How to make the customer feel like that matter.

Do you remember the last experience with a product or service that made you feel special? That made you feel like the business saw and appreciated you for just giving your time and money to them? You would recommend the product or service to your friends without a second thought because of the impression it left on you. Any business owner should aspire to make all their customers feel that.

Whether you run a business or work for one, this is a must read book. This isn’t just another self-help or business guru spewing generic rhetoric and sweet-nothings. Joey Coleman really dives into different strategies and case studies showing how to accomplish a fantastic customer experience. I personally plan on using these strategies at my current employer to understand our customers and give them a customer experience that makes them advocates for our platform.
