# “Superbugs: The Race to Stop an Epidemic” by Matt McCarthy MD

***Completed Reading April 11th 2022***

If COVID-19 is any indication of how unprepared the world is for a global pandemic, it should be daunting what could happen with a more lethal bacterium or fungal disease that is just as contagious as COVID. And Matt has similar sentiments for how stagnant the development of antibiotics have become and the lack of funding for research for combating potential superbugs.

Matt McCarthy and Tom Walsh discovers an antibiotic called Dalba (full name Dalbavancin) which is administered by intravenous infusion to treat skin and soft-tissue infections. And throughout this book, Matt rehashes the treacherous and exhausting journey of getting Dalba to be an FDA-approved drug. Matt and Tom had to write multiple sequential letters that was properly worded in a way that got a board of FDA members to give Matt and Tom the green to “test” on human subjects via trial, find the right patients that fit a set of criteria that wouldn’t get compromised due other ailments the patient could have, and then prove Dalba didn’t have malicious side-effects that could put the patient’s life at peril. All while trying to convince a pharmaceutical company (which already looks unfavorably on antibiotics since they have a low or no ROI) to fund Dalba.

So just from the process alone, it’s understandable why innovation in the antibiotic field has so much inertia and less MDs are going into the field. Which is the whole premise of this book as human civilization is on the cusp of being unable to combat superbugs who build enzymes and protein to combat our current antibiotics. The FDA and CDC does have good reason to take caution with exposing patients to new antibiotics (just look the case with Omniflox in 1992). But we must continue to develop new antibiotics to combat against potential superbugs and introduce them to society at a steady pace, so bacterium and fungus doesn’t build countermeasures to all new antibiotics at once.

On the more idyllic side, there’s a microbiologist at Rockefeller University named Sean Brady with his team that discovered a method that couples DNA sequencing and bioinformatics. They examind over 2,000 soil samples across the U.S. and found new classes of antibiotics! With a computer program, Sean and his team was able to find a specific DNA signature of calcium dependence in the soil samples in different climates to build new antibiotics called malacidins (which kill MRSA after three weeks of exposure). Just think of all the possible new antibiotics we can make for society if we used this same or similar methods for soil and other surfaces where bacteria to combat superbugs grows.

To wrap this up if you’re interested in learning more about the importance of antibiotics and the process to get a new antibiotic approved, I would recommend this book. I really appreciate that Matt ended the book on a high hopeful note if microbiology is properly funded.
