# “Crucial Conversations: Tools for Talking When Stakes are High” By Joseph Grenny

***Completed Reading May 9th 2022***

Ever been in a conversation where it turns into a yelling match where neither party is so far from listening to each other, they might as well have been speaking different languages? Have you ever had to conform to a superior’s decisions even though you know that it’s bad idea with harmful ramifications? Have you ever been an argument where you had to win no matter what your opponents thinks or says?

If you lived on this planet long enough, we’ve been in situations like this. Egocentricity and heightened adrenaline is usually the main culprits for conversations being derailed and transforms into verbal lashing. These type of conversations, given enough time going unchecked, leads to a downward spiral to permanent resentment, unhealthy behaviors, and decaying trust between the people involved in the conversation.

So…. What can we do to turn the ship around in these type of relationships? Well, I’m glad you ask, because book gives some essential tools and techniques to not only assuage a toxic relationship but mend those tattered strands and sow a bond of healthy dialogues, safe environments, and honest/candid feedback.

But for me personally, there are two things I really took away from this book (Actively Listen to the Other Person and Build a Safe Space). If people don't feel like they are being listened to, they will either not contribute and go on autopilot OR they will lash out at the person who's causing them distress. In order to limit these reactions, a safe space where people can speak without fear of repercussions builds the environment for constructive criticism, diverse ideas, and healthy debates.

It’s been a while since I’ve highly recommended a book but if you’re having a difficult time communicating with someone in your personal life or at work, the tips in this book could vastly help you find effective ways to communicate with that person.
