# “Transcend: The New Science of Self-Actualization” By Scott Barry Kaufman

***Completed Reading June 10th 2022***

We humans are truly fascinating creatures. Our neurological and biological makeups combined with our environments dictates our personalities, triggers, relationships, career paths, vices, etc… And it really feels like the world we created for ourselves have most people self-absorbed by their own trials and tribulations. Even with the positive trend of mental health awareness, meditation, therapy, and self-reflection, it still feels like only a few people can actually profess themselves as “self-actualizers”. In this book, Scott B. Kaufman does a deep dive into Abraham Maslow’s Needs Hierarchy’s levels and the life of Abraham Maslow.

Let’s start of with The New Hierarchy of Needs:
1. Security -> Safety, Connection, Self-Esteem
2. Growth -> Exploration, Love, Purpose
3. Transcendence
  
Scott goes into each level and explains how each is integrated with one another. It’s not a ‘once I satisfy my “Security” level, I can move up to the “Growth” level’. Each level depends on either other in order to have balance and there’s a decent of leakage from one level to the next.

Scott really digs into the psychological, psychological, neurological, and humanistic aspects of self-actualization and how to accomplish it. And one thing that really stuck out to me about self-actualization is the constant work and self-reflection necessary to stay transcendent. It’s not a “I’ve reached it, now I’m done” type of thing. A self-actuators constantly reevaluates themselves, constantly accept their flaws and imperfections (and actually utilizes that realization of their shortcomings to their advantage in life), and accepts the struggles that come with life.

I fount a lot of topics that seems like contradictions to actually be the “yin/yang” of each other. For example, once you accept your anger as a part of your rather than something you have to “fix” or “get rid of”, you feel more love. If you actually digest a traumatic event that happens to you and accept it for something that happened, you are able to move on in life and turn that negative event into a meaningful organization or objective in your life.

There’s a lot in this book that I can’t cover in one post, but there’s something in this book for everyone no matter where you’re at in your life. Scott briefly mentions this but our society is full of distractions and myopic goals (i.e. items, great career by society standards, people’s prospections) that doesn’t focus on the individual’s purpose or meaning in life. This book can shine a light on what your actual focus should be in order to become transcendent.
