# “Bullshit Jobs” by David Graeber

***Completed Reading July 22nd 2022***

It’s sad to say, but a good amount of Americans feel like their jobs are pointless (in other other words bullshit). The job can be bullshit in a myriad of ways:
1. To do a pointless task that brings little to no value to the company
2. To make your boss look good (feudal leadership mindset)
3. To actually bring harm to someone else in the long run (tax collectors, telemarketers, timeshare providers).
4. To “manage” people but doesn’t actually improve your reports performance (which can turn into needing to validate your job)
   
I could go on forever, but the real question is “Why do these people stay in these jobs if they know it doesn’t bring any intrinsic value to society?” Well… there’s two main reasons outlined in this book I’ll bring up here(one is painfully obvious, but the other is sinisterly subtle).

The first reason is the need for some financial compensation. Our country is built on consumerism. It’s so ubiquitous and ingrained in our culture that it’s rare to find someone who wholeheartedly is satisfied living a “hermit” lifestyle. U.S. corporations and government has done a phenomenal job making the average American feel like they need commodities to feel happy even if it requires going into debt. And credit card and lending companies loves nothing more than a bunch of Americans going into debt. Debt means you have to work to pay those companies back otherwise we’ll making an arbitrary number called your “credit score” go into the gutter which dramatically reduces your credit power in this country. So no matter how much you may hate your job, the fear of being able to “Keep up with the Jones” is vastly more daunting

The second reason is not as blatantly obvious but is actually more menacing (in my opinion). What do people think of the unemployed and/or homeless in this country? We think those people are worthless, inconsequential, parasites, leeches…(insert any synonyms here). We have inadvertently (or maybe on purpose) stigmatized having a job, no matter the actual value to society, to your value as a person in this country. And not only that but there’s term that was introduced in this book called “moral envy”. Moral envy in the realm of employment means that one employee who works a bullshit job is envious of someone who works in a career that actually brings social value (I.e. CNAs, teachers, care professionals). This inadvertently has brought in the mindset that since these jobs actually bring social value that makes the professional feel good, they should be paid less to balance out the moral satisfaction. When I first read that, I couldn’t believe that people (or employers) can be that cynical, so I’m reserving believing that this is the case until more evidence can validate this assumption.

So what can be done about bullshit jobs? It’s funny that the one solution David G. suggested was Universal Basic Income. Now there’s multiple different implementations of UBI, but the one that David G. subscribes to is unrestricted. This basically means everyone (truly EVERYONE) gets the same amount money (ideally an amount that maintains median standard of living). Detractors will give two main reasons for why UBI will not work. It will make people not work and left to their own devices people’s work will not contribute to society. Well, the first point is pretty obvious especially if someone doesn’t like their job. Of course they will quit because they feel like they have no purpose at their current position and the only reason that is keeping them there has been eliminated with the installment of UBI. The second reason doesn’t make much sense, because there’s a bunch of bullshit jobs that doesn’t contribute to societies already! And people want to work or do something (if you look at any psychology study that monitors people doing “nothing”, these people end up feeling antsy, skittish, and want to do something). Of course you’ll have a subset of people who will not do much to contribute to society but a lot of people will do work that helps their fellow citizen (I.e. volunteer work, building innovative tools, contributing to open source projects). Now with more time on their hands and not feeling obligated to work, people will be happier and help each other more. If you need a real world example, look at what happened in India: https://basicincometoday.com/the-ubi-experiments-in.../ especially for the positive impact it had on women. And U.S. can do this because we had a similar program when we were at the peak of the pandemic.

From start to finish, I was engaged with this book especially when it came to testimonies. This is worth a pickup if you’re curious about what a bullshit job is and how we got here.
