# "David and Goliath" by Malcolm Gladwell

***Completed Reading August 16th 2022***

The story of David and Goliath is an ostensible moral message of “Even the weakest individual can topple the strongest foe”. Well…. that’s sort of half true. While Goliath was a formidable opponent, he was only formidable for the particular game he was playing. By that I mean Goliath was a giant among men with the heaviest of armor, strength of a bull, and close combat skills that can demolish 4-5 men. But David didn’t participate in close combat. He used his sling to crack Goliath in the skull from far away, rendering him unconscious, and stabbing Goliath.

The entire premise of this book is that the ostensibly amazing underdog stories portrayed to us have a much deeper meaning and backstory that a good amount of people doesn't even realize. Like for example remember the famous civil rights picture taken by Bill Hudson for “The New York Times” on May 4th 1963 which changed the tide of the civil right movement for the better. I didn’t know before reading this book, but it turns out the Walter Gadsden (the Parker High School student) wasn’t even part of the march. He was just a bystander. When the dog charged at him, he knew having his hands down would deescalate the aggressiveness of the dog. And the police officer didn’t mean for the German Shepard to lunge at Walter Gadsden. But from the image alone, it looks like a cop released his dog onto Walter. And for Martin Luther King and Wyatt Walker, that’s all they needed for the movement throughout the country to ignite.

You see King and Walker for months were looking for a police chief in Birmingham who had a hair trigger temper to annoy just enough for retaliation. And that gullible fox who took the bait was Bull Conner. King and Walker understood that just protesting wasn’t enough to get the typical American on their side. They needed images that triggered a visceral reaction from the viewer. Read up on the African folk tale “Brer Rabbit”. Bull Conner was the Brer Fox while King and Walker were the Brer Rabbits.

What I really like about this book is that Malcolm Gladwell goes through different people’s lives and different civilizations where they SHOULD have failed or expectations should have been met, but the complete opposite occurs. Like for example, the verisimilitude of smaller class sizes meaning better learning experiences. I was also under the assumption that smaller classes were the best way to learn, but that’s not entirely true. Malcolm introduces a concept called the “inverted U-graph”. Basically meaning the peak of the curve has the most optimal performance. But going beyond that point, the opposite begins to happen. So if you look at school size example, obviously having a classroom with 40+ kids is inefficient for a multitude of reasons. But if you look at the other side of the curve where you have less than 10 kids, then the individual kid feels like they can’t connect with anyone, they get singled out more, and there is much less engagement from the entire class.

I’ve learned a good amount from this book especially when it comes to embodying the message: “Not everything is what it seems”. And it’s pretty motivational too especially for someone who doesn’t feel like they belong in society or feel like there’s a big entity that seems impossible to topple over. The human resolve is a lot more powerful than most people assume.
