# "Woke Racism": 'How a New Religion Has Betrayed Black America' by John McWhorter

***Completed Reading October 9th 2022***

With a book that has such a controversial title and premise, I want you the reader to have an open-mind about the post I’m going to make. For some of my friends who read my synopsis will potentially feel attack and/or offended by the contents of this book and/or my opinions about this book. More than anything, I would want to have an open dialectic about this topic, because it is a rather touchy but crucial conversation that needs to be had in order for our country to bridge the divide of bipartisanship on topics like this in other in a similar vain. Now that this disclosure has hopefully been address, let’s get started.

As a black American, John has some major concerns about the Third Wave of Anti-Racism that we’re currently in right now in this country. To clarify, the First Wave of Anti-Racism starts with the emancipation of slaves on 1863. The Second Wave of Anti-Racism is the success of the Civil Right movement that had a major impact of the inherit rights Black American citizens deserved in conjunction to opinions about Black Americans shifting into a more positive and progressive realm for non-Black Americans. The Third Wave of Anti-Racism is what John calls the “Elect Religion”.

The Elect believes that white people should feel guilty and cleanse their sins of their ancestors. On top of that, they must acknowledge that they have white privilege and that every success they’ve accomplished or opportunities that were given to them is due to this white privilege. Even though John believes there are of course some truths to these claims (i.e. red lining, generational wealth, leadership demographic in S&P 500 companies), focusing solely on degrading and shaming white people for being white doesn’t solve anything. In fact the Elect are putting a light on only focusing on the race of a person rather than their individual characteristics.

The Elect acts as the Judge, Jury, and Executioner for anyone who remotely disagrees with them via attempting to completely demolish said offender’s career, public image, and personal life (i.e. Bret Weinstein, Charles Murray, and Steven D Levitt). At least in Catholicism, an offender can be forgiven for their sins. The Elect has no proper way to forgive someone they feel transgressed the “racism” line. Rather than focusing on cancelling and shunning people who they don’t see as Elect in the fight against racism, John has three simple solutions that can have a much more beneficial impact for Black America:
1. Fight to end the war on drugs.
2. Make sure kids not from book-lined homes are taught to read with phonics.
3. Advocate vocational training for poor people and battle the idea that “real” people go to college.
   
For me personally, I 100% agree with these solutions. Not only does these solutions improve the testing scores of black Americans around the nation, but it’ll secure them permanent employment in a job sector that desperate need vocational workers. In to add a Malcolm Gladwellian spin to #3, there’s evidence that kids will succeed more in life when enrolling into colleges/programs that fits their learning level. If you want to learn more, look at this video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7J-wCHDJYmo.... If we continue to push students into programs they are ill-prepared for, they will most likely fail and can potentially become too demoralized to proceed in that field.

Here’s my two cents on the topic. I think we still have racist residue in our institutions that we need to fix overtime and I definitely think that the average black American will have the shorter end of the stick than the average white American. But I truly believe our society has progressed overtime in a positive direction. I don’t think we can ever get past the subconscious bias people have, because it’s an innate biological function in all of us. We can’t unsee someone that is different from us no matter how hard we try. Also, there’s real data points that political scientists have that can help our country find real solutions for Black Americans, but those scientists either dilute or completely remove those data points in fear of backlash from the certain people (I.e. Charles Murray from his book “The Bell Curve” or Steven Levitt with longitudal data on how legalized abortions decreased the amount of black on black crime in certain regions of the country). For me, the moment empirical data and natural case studies takes a back seat to emotional fanaticism that’s when a conversation needs to be had or that particular group needs to be shut out until they’re ready for a dialectic to real solutions.

If you got to the end of my synopsis, let me know what you think! There’s a pandora box here where I think we as a country need to discuss in order for us to get to a better space about racism in this country.
