# "The Code Breaker: Jennifer Doudna, Gene Editing, and the Future of the Human Race" by Walter Isaacson

***Completed Reading December 1st 2022***

Nature combined with Science is truly a beautiful epistemological aspect of life.

For billions of years, bacteria and viruses have been in an evolutionary “cat and mouse” game for bacteria building up defenses and viruses adapting to those defenses to infect bacteria. And as multicellular bacteria evolved into multicellular organisms, that same defensive “strategy” has been carried on.

So when biologists, microbiologists, and geneticists utilize techniques to fight against deadly diseases (just look at Alexander Fleming for penicillin), these seemly complex implementations has been natural techniques that have been used for billions of years. We humans just found a way to control it.

And that’s exactly how Jennifer Doudna (the main protagonist of this book) honed in on RNA to utilize multiple gene-editing techniques (mainly CRISPR Cas9, Cas12, and Cas13) to detect a specific genetic sequence in addition to editing or even destroying that RNA sequence. So when the COVID-19 pandemic was the biggest catastrophe the world has experienced in decades from a virus standpoint, COVID-19 was a RNA virus which could be eliminated with the technique of Cas13 finding the specific RNA sequence and Cas12 cleaving it out of the host’s system. This is really convenient for two major reasons:
1. Since the Cas12 and Cas13 techniques doesn’t need to inform the immune system that a particular RNA sequence Is a threat, this reduces the risk of the immune system overreacting and causing unnecessary harm to other healthy cells.
2. CRISPR Cas-9 (and its descendants) can be utilized for almost any RNA sequence for gene editing. So a microbiologist with enough knowledge of how CRISPR works can generate an RNA sequence, so the messenger RNA can send a sequence the cell nuclues (using tracer RNA) which will then replicate that new genetic sequence.

As you can see, CRISPR Cas-9 can literally change the genetic coding of a human. In 2018, He Jiankui used CRISPR to alter the genetic code of embryo to become immune to HIV (he took the eggs from a Non-HIV woman and the sperm from an HIV father). He ended up going to prison because this violated the bioethics laws that were put in place for this exact reason.

Ever since CRISPR was discovered, Doudna and her contemporaries have gone through great lengths to vet what was appropriate usages of CRISPR. They all realize that genetic coding could potentially as ubiquitous as computer coding left to its own devices. It wasn’t too long ago when computer coding and the internet was restricted to a few people. Now imagine what could happen if people could pick their child’s height, IQ, bone density, appetite level, skin color, eye color, etc.. Just imagine being able to ensure your child doesn’t have asthma, isn’t autistic, immune to Huntington’s disease and sickle-cell anemia, isn’t allergic to any food. As a parent given those choices, what would you do?

Gene editing is here. We’ve seen it being used to create vaccines against COVID-19 and so many other potentially deadly viruses in the future. And it can also be used to make two babies immune to HIV. The question is where do we go from here as a society? Because one of the concerns Walter Isaacson (and I wholeheartedly agree) has is this new technology being utilize to spread the inequality gap even further. Just imagine what elite parents would do to their children if there were no restrictions around gene editing. We as a society have really been dropping the ball on properly policing and regulating groundbreaking technology that gets ingrained in our society. Social media, cryptocurrencies, and NFTs started with good intentions which slowly transmogrified into harmful stains on our society. I can only imagine what the results will be if we go down the same path with gene editing.
