# "Why We’re Polarized" by Ezra Klein

***Completed Reading December 11th 2022***

America has reached a boiling point in politics that focuses more on party lines and differences rather than implementing bipartisan solutions. Ever since the Obama presidency, our country has been hijacked by identity politics, demonizing the opposing party, and underhanded tactics destroying cooperation between party lines.

Ezra Klein points out how identity politics is eerily similar to fanaticism in sports clubs in terms of tribe mentality. There are numerous social experiments that illustrates how a fan of a particular club is less receptive to helping a fan from an opposing team. And sadly this same mentality is not only prevalent between democrats and republicans but it’s more exacerbated because of how each party depicts the other.

Republicans represent the traditional Catholic America that wants the majority of America’s conservative lifestyle to remain instilled while the Democratic represent the progressive agnostic America that wants rights for minorities to be implemented in our constitution. Of course there’s politicians on both sides that doesn’t align with their party’s core mantra but it would be political and career suicide if those politicians speak out against their party (just look at Joe O’Dea when he spoke against Trump).

And most appalling the outcome of this political warfare is both parties undermining each other rather than working with each other. Just look at how Mitch McConnell and other Republicans used filibustering to restrict Obama from appointing a Supreme Court Nominee. But when Trump got into office those same Republicans let Trump appoint his nominees unabated. Or using multiple different techniques to restrict/block voters (here’s a good list of some of these techniques: https://www.aclu.org/.../block-the-vote-voter-suppression...).

Just look at how our democracy gets tested from Trump refusing to relinquish the presidency to Biden. It can not be understated how insanely damaging that is to our democracy. Trump literally denounced a fair election because he lost. This isn’t a sports game; this is America’s democracy on the line when Trump is saying our institutional practices and foundation is a sham and anyone who believes this claim needs to fight against the system due to malpractices underneath the hood. And what’s so damning about this is that if enough people believe him, there can be a civil uproar (just look at January 6th) against our government over literal misinformation and unvalidated claims.

This is where we are in America. Where party values take precedence over best solutions for the general populace. And the daunting thing about this for Ezra Klein (and I have to agree) is that there doesn’t seem to be a viable solution for us to correct course. As long as both parties (and the major voting demographic) sees the other as an enemy, we’re going to see more stagnation in our government.
