# “When Men Behave Badly: The Hidden Roots of Sexual Deception, Harassment, and Assault” by David M. Buss

***Completed Reading February 20th 2023***

DISCLAIMER: The content in this review can be disturbing to the reader. The topics of rape, sexual assaults, sexual harassment, and suicide will be mentioned in my synopsis. If these are triggers for you, please don’t read this review as the author focused heavily on these subjects.

The author in the prelude of this book says that he will be focused on heterosexual couples, so  that’s where all his findings and rhetoric are concentrated. There are some studies for same-sex couples, but he mentioned that there wasn’t enough research in this particular domain to write a novel about. With that out of the way, let’s dive in.

David comes at the mating dance between men and women from an evolutionary perspective for the majority of the topics he focuses on. From the early generations of humans, men had to forage, fight, and capture game in order to provide for their community and family. With any species, the fittest and most capable of survival was seen as the most desirable male to women, because the man was a provider, protector, and able to ensure her children would have the best possibility of survival. This would explain why men who are tall and have broad shoulder with other masculine attributes are seen as more attractive from an evolutionary standpoint.

The dark side of the evolutionary adaptation though is men who can get as many women pregnant as possible with minimal effort on his part while ensuring his children survive is the most ideal outcome. Throughout history, we have seen what happens to women (especially fertile age women) when one nations conquers another.

Sexual coercion has been a prevalent and abhorrent act in all of human history. Wars, patriarchal cultures, workplaces, public areas, colleges, marriages, etc… have all brought out the worst behavior in men especially those who exhibit the Dark Triad characteristics (narcissism, Machiavellianism, and psychopathy). David mentions countless times that the type of man who are high up on the Dark Triad characteristics are more likely to enact heinous acts of sexual coercion such as sexual harassment, sexual assault, and rape. And these acts can have long term effects on women from a mental, physical, and safety perspective. David dives into details about how some women whom are unfortunate to go through acts of stalking to being physically assaulted/raped sometimes feel like they have no one to go to, blame themselves, go through deep depths of depressions, and even commit suicide.

And to keep to David’s primary tone in this book from an evolutionary perspective, it can inferred that the responses to such horrifying incidents  could be due to image, status, and reputation being on the line. There are multiple occurrences in the past and present where a woman spoke out about what happened to her, and she ends up taking a reputational hit that she can’t recover from. It’s a really a shame on that particular culture that ostracizes and shuns the victim rather than enact justice onto the perpetrator.

Even though this is very doom-and-gloom, David speaks about our society (the world) as a whole is moving away from such harmful responses to victims who have to deal with sexual coercion. All fifty states have instituted some form of persecution for martial rape, workplaces are cracking down on sexual harassment, and the #MeToo movement have shined lights on disgusting men who have been using their power to sexually coerce women. Plus most men don’t exhibit these heinous behaviors from the multiple studies David have referenced. And as time has progressed on, there have been a dramatic decrease in rapes (even though it’s still a problem of underreporting) and martial assaults all around the world.

We have a long way to go still, but it’s actually good to see all across the world countries are taking these crimes seriously and ensuring there are harsh punishments for perpetrators.
