# “A Thousand Brains: A New Theory of Intelligence” by Jeff Hawkins

***Completed Reading March 12th 2023***

## Part 1: The Human Brain

I decided to split my review of this book into 3 parts, because each major section/topic of this book needs its own section to properly dive into. So as the subtitle eludes to, this synopsis will be focused on the human brain and how (following the Thousand Brain Theory) it operates.

So let’s first start with what intelligence means from the perspective of Jeff Hawkins. Intelligence is the total amount of models the neocortex can generate. And by model, Jeff means the three dimensional structure of objects that we living beings have to interact with.

The culprit responsible for generating these models is the neocortex (the source of intelligence in animals that possess the neocortex). But with a model (let’s say a chair), how do we model a chair to begin with? A newborn doesn’t have an inkling what a chair is or how to engage with a chair. But overtime as the newborn grows to sit in their high chair; see how it looks; grab/pull on their high chair, the newborn/baby’s neocortex starts to build a model of what a chair is. But the neocortex can’t model this without cortical columns (a group of neurons) responsible for sensory inputs, grid layers, and placement layers.

I really like the analogy Jeff uses to represent (at a very simplistic standpoint) how cortical columns work. So say for example you had a map of a city (9x9 grid). Each square is a landmark. At spot vertical 4: horizontal 5, there is a coffee shop. And we have 5 people with only one specialized sensor (sight, sound, touch, smell, taste). The sight person can see the coffee sign, the sound person can hear the steam machine making the coffee, the touch person can feel how hot the cup fills when receiving the coffee, the smell person can sniff the aroma of Maxwell House, and the taste person can taste the brand of Maxwell House. Some sensors are more apropro than the others for this scenario, but put together you can get a much more accurate answer to where you are. The cortical columns are the people while the map (or more specifically the model of the coffee shop) is the model generated by the neocortex. This is how the new brain (mainly neocortex) works at a high level and this can be applied to multiple types of models (e.g. mathematics, physics, dance, arts, etc.)

But of course with evolution, the new brain had to have evolved from the antiquated parts of our brain which still exists. And this old brain (e.g. hippocampus and entorhinal cortex) drives us to do irrational things from our neocortex perspective. For example, we’re all well aware of the dangers of an excess amount of sugar in our diet, but why can’t we put down the Krispy Kreme’s donut? Our new brain is like, “This can potentially cause diabetes and excess weight gain” while the old brain is like, “Mmmmmm…. Donut! Must eat”. And this example is innocuous, but this conflict becomes more dire and consequential when discussing sustainability of life on earth and an egalitarian society.

But if we could potentially remove the old brain and keep the new brain when we’re trying to emulate the human brain for machines, would this be the golden solution to human flourishment and salvation? Let’s dive into that in the next part.

## Part 2: Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) (based on the human brain)

Let me get this out of the way before everyone start asking. Artificial Intelligence we have today is not even close to what would be considered proper AGI (and that includes chatGPT).

The AI we have today generate very specific models for specific tasks/goals. A better nomenclature would be artificial narrow intelligence. So let’s go with the AI program AlphaGo for example. At the most basic level (from my understanding) is that the programmer generates a model of the game Go, provides a bunch a data (a.k.a games AlphaGo plays) for the AI program can utilize to train the model, and uses feedback for the best paths to get the goal (which in this case is winning the Go game). As I mentioned in a previous book I read about AI, these programs (as of right now) works best in a fixed environment (e.g. Go, checkers/chess), with limited variability, and low levels of dexterity.

ChatGPT goes generate a bunch of models based on the user’s ask, but this is still limited compared to how the human neocortex works. ChatGPT can easily generate a poem about Billie Ellish, because the generated model doesn’t require much sensory input validation. But how can ChatGPT properly make a cup of coffee from scratch? I know ChatGPT is strictly used for communication purposes, but let’s continue this thought experiment.

ChatGPT would have to:
1. Know where it is located
2. Know where the coffee cups are
3. How to hold the coffee cups, so it doesn’t break or drop them
4. Know which coffee to make
5. How to operate the coffee machine?
6. How to tell if the coffee is hot enough?
7. How to add the necessary enhancements based on the customer’s ask?
   
I’m probably missing a couple of crucial steps, but you get my point. Sure you can add on certain sensory features and augmentations to allow ChatGPT to accomplish this, but in the realm of AGI, you know how many times you have to update ChatGPT for EVERY different model in the world we have.

As Jeff strongly suggests, the only viable solution we have to even get close to AGI is emulating the human brain. And as I mentioned in part 1 can we eliminate the old brain and keep the new brain? Well….. as Jeff mentions in the book, it’s not that simple. Because the neocortex didn’t just take complete control over every function the old brain had. The old brain still have control over our motor, sensory, and emotional functions. So if we just build a machine that is solely the new brain, we don’t know what essential functions we would be shutting off. It’s like doing something similar to the human brain. Sure, the new brain will be active and working, but what information will it not being getting now that the old brain used to provide and what impact would that have on the human ability to function in the real world.

The other side of the coin is, “Well…. can’t we just pick and choose what we want from the human brain”. The human brains have about 86 billion neurons with over 600 trillion synapses. There’s no way we can parse through all those connections to “pick and choose” which behaviors and functions we want on and off.

But that doesn’t mean getting close to mirroring the human brain isn’t possible. And if we get a point in human existence where AGI (even if only rudimentary) is unleashed into the wild, we need to have a serious discussion about the substantial benefits and detrimental liabilities that can come from such technology. And that will be the discussion for the final part of my synopsis.

# Part 3: The Impact of the Human Brain on Society

Remember in part 1 when I mentioned that the old brain and new brain have different objectives. The old brain focuses on propagating genes and surviving while the new brain focuses on solving complex and thought provoking problems.

It should be pretty clear how these two entities can have discrepancies when it comes to decision making. And this becomes blatantly clear with human history with autocratic and totalitarian governments. A dictator or monarch uses their position to obtain power, prestige, and value (primary characteristics for males that has the highest chance of passing on their genes). A system that is obviously detrimental to the overall populace of that society benefits the select few.

Another example is some devastating and abhorrent events that occurs  in the aftermath of alcohol usage in a public setting (especially in college). The combination of a still developing brain while injecting a substance that hinders some of the brain’s functions is a recipe for the old brain decision making to take more of precedence over the new brain.

But another concern that doesn’t involve so much the old brain but the potential harmful models that a person’s neocortex can generate from personal experience. For example what made people start believing the earth is round instead of flat? It wouldn’t be enough for Isaac Newton to proclaim via physics equation that the earth had a curve for a layman. But as more practical instead of theoretical evidence became prevalent (e.g. travel around the world via boat, views where a curve can be seen, satellites show the earth from space), more people started to build a model of the earth being round. Now there are still people who believe the earth is flat, but society as a whole doesn’t give any credence to those claims.

But what happens if we don’t have the evidence to change someone’s model of a subject? Or even worse what if someone refuses to update their model? For example anti-vaxxers have a model of vaccines as a detrimental substance that does more harm than good to them and their children. No matter how much evidence you provide to someone with this model unless their neocortex can “accept” this new evidence and update their model, they will fight against vaccinations. That’s why we had a measles outbreak in 31 states in 2019. And people who didn’t get vaccination during the height of COVID not only could have impacted their health but the health of others around them (herd immunity).

And this inability to update models is most pronounced with the use of the internet and social media. Before the internet boom if you were a flat-earther, it would most likely be difficult for you to find anyone else in your community who would give you the time of day. Now you can easily find people online who will believe the same thing you do. And not only that but social media sites will feed you this content, because it keeps your attention and time on their platform. Just look at the rise of QAnon for a prime example of an overtly ludicrous belief ostensibly spreading “truth” about certain public figures.

Humans is the only species in the knowable universe that has accomplished this level of intelligence and utilizes knowledge to not only further our species but discover that billions of other galaxies exist with billions of their own self contained stars. Humans truly have the ability to be a multi-planetary species! Something that sounds like science fiction is possible If we can figure how to colonize Mars. Just think about we already have technology via CRISPR to modify our genetic structure. What if we could modify the genetic material of human to potentially survive on Mars?

You might be saying, “Oh…. come on! You really think that’s possible?”. Well if you asked someone from the 1800s that in 200 years people will be able to communicate with each other on a device they can hold in their hand and travel to the other side of the globe in half a day, they would have probably had a similar reaction.

Where I’m going with this is that humans have so much potential and so much more discovery to do outside of our own planet. But the things that are holding us back are either behavior adopted by the old brain or unwillingness of people to update their models with new accurate and vetted information. I truly believe if we can bypass these two things as a society, we have a great chance to continue the success of species is currently experiencing.
