# "A Beginner’s Guide to the End: Practical Advice for Living Life and Facing Death" by BJ Miller and Shoshana Berger

***Completed Reading April 22th 2023***

As an old adage goes, “There’s are two things certain in life: death and taxes”. No matter what, we will ultimately have to face death either by a loved one or our own demise. Death is never an easy topic to discuss, because it’s never easy to imagine how life goes on without you being here. But we all have to face death, so what this book primarily focuses on how to prepare for death in multiple facets.

I think the keys areas of preparation focuses on finances (estate plan, will, life insurance, etc), illnesses, caregivers, near-death, post-death. And I really like that Bj and Shoshana comes from the perspective of the person who is dying and the person/people who take care of them.

There’s a ton information is this book that is of great value, but the three that really stuck with me was hospice/palliative care, “Death by 1000 cuts” when it comes to handling all of the administrative tasks for a recently deceased person, and making conversations about death more ubiquitous and acceptable.

Hospice and palliative care is pretty much synonymous in generally every facet except for one major difference: An individual is only admitted into hospice once a medical professional verifies that the individual is not going to survive their illness. And apparently once an individual is on hospice, they can apply for medicare which completely covers all aspects of care and services which I wasn’t even aware of.

So in line with the antiquatedness of our governmental system, properly managing an deceased’s person’s accounts, estates, bills, debts, and other miscellaneous tasks is basically a part-time job for a month or even longer. I appreciate that the authors supplies a TO-DO List of things you can do to make this entire process less overwhelming which is already mentally and emotionally exhausting because the responsible party of the deceased is already having to deal with their loved dying recently.

Conversations about death shouldn’t be as casual as talking about the weather with people in your circle, but it shouldn’t be at the level of a taboo. The authors completely get that thinking about dying is a very uncomfortable thing to do especially if you’re young. But in my opinion, that’s probably the best time to discuss, because a young adult is at the prime age (except for preexisting conditions) to take advantage of cheap life insurance plans (where there are a decent amount that even give you the opportunity to make dividends on). For me personally, my significant other and I made an estate plan and will in case anything happens to us. These conversations also open up questions about you want the process to be when you are going through this moment in your life. And it makes it clear to people close to you how you want them to best handle your wishes.

I’m not going to lie some of the notes/suggestions in this book are very rudimentary and repetitive, but there are some very helpful suggestions with handling the entire process of death. I would recommend this book to anyone because we all of have to encounter death in one form or another, so best to be prepared for when the time comes.
