# “Infectious Greed: How Deceit and Risk Corrupted the Financial Markets” by Frank Partnoy

***Completed Reading June 11th 2023***

The title of this book only describes a piece of this putrid corrupted financial pie. Even though the events mentioned in this book are from the early 1980s to the early 2000s, the financial instruments and strategies used still exist today in all facets of the financial market.

In 1986, Andy Krieger joined Bankers Trust as a trader. Over time, he became one of the biggest traders at the company and on Wall Street with a trading strategy (along with a team of super-geniuses) that involved off-the-market derivative currency trading. Since the SEC restricted the banking and other financial institutions from trading on currencies directly, Andy Krieger and his team came up with a currency swap. So say a banking investor wanted to make investing in the Yen, for example, the investor could utilize an off-the-market currency swap to trade via another entity (say an LLC/partner/SPE). Along with the ability to trade, this off-the-market derivative doesn’t have to be recorded as an expense. So an investor could lose money from this swap but from an external viewer’s perspective, the investor didn’t lose any money.

So when Krieger’s bosses were looking at his performance, it looked like he was doing fantastic and making Banker Trust millions of dollars. But in reality, those risky investments were actually losing money. Again, Krieger didn’t have to report those losses because it wasn’t considered an “expense” by the SEC’s definition. It was only after Krieger left Banker Trust that the executives at Banker Trust started to realize the house of card Krieger built. TLDR; Banker Trust had to report that they ended up actually losing $80 million dollars from that respective quarter.

With hindsight being 20/20, this event should have been a warning sign to other investors and entities. But this accomplished the complete opposite for 3 reasons:
1. The parties that were aware or involved received little to no repercussions for their actions
2. Due to the lack of legal consequences even if you were to lose money for your employer, you make so much money that the risk was low for a high reward
3. The SEC and other government institutions that were supposed to police this behavior become more lax or the financial schemes were so complicated that it was very difficult to prosecute offenders.
  
And that’s how the infection spread from investors to banks, corporations, and even municipalities.

Just do some research on these companies and banks in the early 2000s (Enron, Global Crossing, WorldCom, AT&T, Citibank, J.P. Morgan Chase, General Electric, Merrill Lynch, American Express, Dynergy, Xerox, Dell Computer, AOL Time Warner, El Paso Corporation, Adelphia Communications). And these are the ones that I recall from the book. All these companies to some degree used financial instruments (i.e. derivate swaps, credit swaps, CDOs, etc.) to either hide/spread out expenses or overexaggerate profit/revenue. Even when the auditors were supposed to “validate” the accuracy of their numbers, they would give a thumbs up on the accounting sheets. With this in combination with credit agencies such as Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s gives the company’s corresponding securities high ratings, individual investors were none the wiser when purchasing shares/bonds in those institutions.

After reading this book, I’m not even remoting surprised we have these massive destructive episodes occurring almost every 7-8 years. Honestly, I’m surprised it’s not occurring more often. When corporations can just find legal means to hide expenses and bolster profits whenever they need to impress the board and investors, how does our economy properly function? Well… I think I’m answering my own question: The average American gets left holding the dynamite. Those CFOs, hedge fund managers, investors, banks, and executives either have a golden parachute no matter how much devastation they cause or they just play “hot potato” with the risk. Don’t shed a tear for a CEO who is forced out of a company. Their million-dollar severance packages are there for a reason.

And this is kind of the encompassing moral of this book. Whenever institutions and/or individuals have little to no downside for risky behavior, they will start and continue that behavior. And even today, the risky unregulated, and unmitigated behavior in our financial institutions will continue to occur until the SEC and other appropriate government entities enact regulations and standards that will be enforced with harsh punishment. But I won’t hold my breathe that’s gonna happen anytime soon.
