# “The Age of Surveillance Capitalism: The Fight for a Human Future At the New Frontier of Power” By Shoshana Zuboff

***Completed Reading September 4th 2023***

Wow…. simply wow! This came to mind when I finally finished this pre-revolutionary book on the fight for our freedom and will against technological applications disguised as Big Other. I feel that many people are aware that their top-level data, breadcrumbs, and cookies are being tracked in the ethos of the internet. Still, I don’t think enough people understand the breadth and depth of how that data is being used by mega powerhouse companies like Google and Facebook. With the power of pattern recognition, machine learning, and predictive models, we have entered the age where not only are we the products for directed advertisers but our behavior and mannerisms can be modified for the purposes of the surveillance capitalists (i.e. Zuckerberg and Schmidt).

Let’s start with two similar terms: Totalitarianism and Instrumentarianism. Both terms are implemented differently but expect the same results and here’s what I mean. Totalitarianism is the complete control of a society by a few oligarchs by force. We have a multitude of examples of current (e.g. CCP and North Korea) and previous (e.g. Nazi Germany and Stalin Soviet Union) societies ruled by a totalitarian regime where people are prosecuted, tortured, detained, monitored, and executed for going against the teaching of the totalitarian party. The CCP utilizes dystopian surveillance technology to allocate “social credit scores” based on their citizens’ behavior, mannerisms, and loyalty to the CCP. And what’s so grotesque about this score is that it influences every aspect of a citizen’s life from what type of employment they are viable for to how other citizens (including friends and family) perceive them.

Now let’s look at instrumentarianism. Instrumentarianism allows the entities in power to monitor and manipulate the behavior of their subjects whether the user is aware of it or not. Think of it like a zoologist putting a camera or chip onto meerkats to observe how they behave and interact with one another. The end goal (usually) of the zoologist is to figure out how to utilize the data they obtained from the meerkats to improve the ecosystem and environment of the meerkats for generations to come. On the contrary though for tech companies like Facebook, Microsoft, and Google, the data they obtain from their users is to improve their revenues and profits (a.k.a surveillance capitalism).

And that’s the reality to live in. Our data is being collected to ascertain how to modify, manipulate, and nudge us in a direction that increases the surveillance revenues of these tech giants. In an ideal world, all retrieval of any data would be used to benefit both parties (e.g. A Fitbit that warns the user that they need to sleep more or a heart monitor that uses the data to accurately tell when a heart attack could happen). And at least in the healthcare sector, there are regulations and laws (i.e. HIPAA) that protect the user’s data from being used outside of the appropriate parties. But outside of that, it’s basically free reign and these mega-tech giants are pulling every punch to ensure there will be little to no litigations to reduce or close these funnels of data.

And these companies are going to find ways to crawl into every crevice of our lives from the outside to the inside. Samsung has TVs that stay on 24/7 even when it is supposed to be turned “off”. Roombas map out the flooring of your house. Smartwatches monitor when and where you sleep, how you workout, and where you go.   They want to know everything about you, so they can modify your behavior and figure out at what dopamine or serotonin peak is it best to show you an advertisement.

I will end on a positive note though. In Europe, they utilize the GDPR law to ensure that users can ask corporations to remove all data about them from their databases and logs. Employees are these massive companies are blowing the whistle on their invasive practices to warn users about what they should disclose on applications. And more representatives in Congress and the Senate are pushing for more privacy laws to protect the users.

Let’s ensure our freedom and will is not being manipulated, infringed on, or modified by these corporations.

