# “Men Without Work: Post-Pandemic Edition” by Nicholas Eberstadt

***Completed Reading September 19th 2023***

The amount of data points provided by Nicholas in this book is absolutely astounding and well-researched. Nicholas puts a lot of effort into high data from the Bureau of Labor Statistics, Council of Economic Advisors (CEA), Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OCED), and other governmental statistic tracking organizations. This data really illuminates the daunting state of the male labor force participation rate (LFPR) in this country. But I don’t entirely agree with some of his conclusions and assumptions as to why the current state there’s a large amount of men who are not in the labor force and/or are not seeking employment. So I will dive into that a little later.

One of the things I want to highlight that Nicholas mentions is the four factors from the data that impact a person’s trend towards being out of the workforce (which is not the same as being unemployed might I add):
1. Educational Attainment
   The higher your education accomplishments are (i.e. being college-educated vs. high school dropout), the less likely you are to be completely out of the workforce.
2. Married and have children
   If you are a male who is married, you are less likely to be out of the workforce. It drops more if you have children too.
3. Being African American
   An African American male is 2.5x more likely to be out of the workforce than a non-Hispanic white male.
4. Being Native vs. Foreigner
   
Compared to a native-born American, a foreigner is less likely to be out of the workforce.

From the data Nick showed (from 2016), the charts align with these points. Nick makes valid points (some blatantly obvious like higher-skilled workers have more job security than lower-skilled workers) for why this has occurred. #2 deals with a higher responsibility to take care of your family. #3 originates from racist policies, discriminatory practices during job interviews, and fewer opportunities to attain higher education for the past 4-5 generations of African American families. Not to mention the Reagan administration only supplied government aid if families didn’t have a father in the household. For #4, Nick mentions due to the lack of government assistance for foreigners (especially illegal), labor force participation was one of the few options immigrants had to make money.

Nick dives into the impacts of the Great Recession of 2008, many men who were forced out of the labor market had to rely on Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) and other government aid to supplement their lost income (about 2 million applications/year). Based on data once the economy got back to some normalcy, those application levels were still at 2 million applications/year. AFAIK, Nick didn’t segment the demographic of those applicants, and a constant theme in this book is how dismal the data the government provides, so Nick did the best he could with what he had. And to piggyback on the disorderly tracking of information in our government, there’s a good chunk of disability insurances that are unaware of each other. Nick pointed out that a good amount of people who are not looking for work and/or out of the labor market are on 2+ disability insurances that don’t need it.

Now…. to my opinion about this book and Nick’s perspective. I honestly think Nick took the data he had and came to conclusions where some I agree with and others I don’t. So let me start with where I’m in accordance with him.

## AGREEMENT:
   
Our government does have a huge issue with intertwining unemployment with people not in the labor force (NILF). The message they give when they say, “Unemployment is 3%” is telling the American layman that only 3% of the American populace is out of work. In reality, for every unemployed person, there are 3 NILF people. This rhetoric needs to stop being reverberated throughout our media platforms. It gives a false perception of reality and misguides people.

There needs to be better vetting of our governmental programs and services. People are gaming the system at the expense of people who are actually in the labor force contributing to society. I’m a utiliarian at heart and I mostly go with the policies or solution that has the maximum benefits for the majority of people. I’m not saying that people who game the system should be cut off completely because that’ll decimate their lives and the people around them. But I think there can be a solid medium where they can contribute some portion of their time a day (2-3 hours) by helping out a non-profit organization or volunteering if they’re actively not participating in the labor force barring any severe ailments/injuries. This is also my stance when it comes to UBI (Universal Basic Income). Overall, I think UBI is a net good for society, but people who aren’t in the workforce barring major ailments/injuries should contribute to society if they’re benefitting from government subsidies.

Having a criminal record in America dramatically reduces your prospects of getting employment. As Nick mentioned, the majority of convictions in the United States are due to non-severe crimes (i.e. drug possession or excessive parking tickets). And since most companies ask if you have a criminal record (without any way of explaining what the crime is for), the person is automatically at a disadvantage. Which explains why there’s a huge jump in the percentage of people in the NILF with a criminal record.
   
## DISAGREEMENT:

I don’t agree with the implicit assumption that the majority of NILF men are too lazy to work or contribute back to society. If you read the epilogue of the book, Nick had two critiques (Henry Olsen and Jared Bernstein) bring up the point that during the 1950s and so forward globalization became a huge contributor to labor (especially in manufacturing) moving from the United States to other countries around the world. With that, lower-skilled workers (the main demographic of NILF) were heavily impacted by this. It’s not so much that they didn’t want to work as it was that couldn’t. On top of that, the work that was available paid less than being on disability. Not only that, but the disability check was much more stable than the position.

And that kind of brings me to my next disagreeing point. Nick says that the remedy for a lack of jobs is to increase the amount of small businesses that succeed in the United States. Now granted more businesses in the U.S. would increase the amount of positions that are open. But as we have seen throughout the past 50 years, will those jobs (especially low-dexterity, low-complexity) still be there? Larger companies gobble up smaller companies daily, and all those larger companies care about is appeasing their board members and investors. And that means automating a job (or jobs) out to fill the pockets at the top. Trittle-down economics hasn’t and will never work until the government explicitly forces companies to allocate their profits and revenues to their workers. Why do you think unions are becoming a necessary implementation in these corporate institutions? So no, I don’t think having more businesses will improve the NILF numbers.

This post has gone on long enough, so I’ll end with this. This book is a good and quick read with a plethora of data points. I think most readers will make their own opinions as to how to perceive this data.
