# "Bad Blood: Secrets and Lies in a Silicon Valley Startup" by John Carreyrou

***Completed Listening October 24th 2023***

If you want the apotheosis of internal destruction of a private corporation, Theranos is the poster child. Before I read this book, I knew Elizabeth Holmes got convicted of defrauding investors (and honestly should have been charged with potential harm to patients) due to the debacle at Theranos, but I wasn’t aware of how toxic and demoralizing Theranos was to their employees. The leaders disguised as dictators were Elizabeth Holmes and Sunny Balwani.

And honestly, I think when Elizabeth Holmes dropped out of her alma mater Stanford University she wanted to create a biotech company that would make a positive impact on the world. And John Carreyrou dives into her childhood where she was very much a Type A personality driven to be successful. Sadly, she became so consumed with that grandiose vision of success and receiving accolades that she would accomplish this massive feat by any means necessary.

Throughout the book, she lied to investors; hired a complete tyrant (Sunny Balwani), whom she was in a relationship with; fired employees whom she found contentious; and created faulty technology (that they ended up releasing to the public for PATIENTS TO ACTUALLY USE).

An ex-employee by the name of Ian Gibbons ended up committing suicide due to a combination of his mistreatment at Theranos and being pressured by a Theranos lawyer to not testify against Theranos in a deposition. And you know what Elizabeth’s response was for an employee who has worked at Theranos for 10 years who committed suicide….to barely even acknowledge his death and send a half-ass email that was basically a footnote.

This deplorable and depictable response to the death of an ex-employee embodies the mindset of Elizabeth Holmes. Her success trumps everything and everyone else. And would also explain why she would release a Theranos device she knew full well was faulty and inaccurate to the public for blood testing. Blood testing is one of and not the most important screenings in the medical world for checking the health of the patients. So if those tests are inaccurate or unreliable at BEST a patient receives unnecessary inconsequential care and at WORST a patient will get fatal prescriptions or care. Elizabeth Holmes risked patients’ lives in order to maintain her image as the “Silicon Valley Queen”.

You might be wondering, why didn’t employees blow the whistle on Theranos. Well, Theranos (a.k.a Elizabeth and Sunny) made their employees sign multiple NDAs (before and after employment) and informed them that they would get sued if they said anything disparaging about Theranos. Imagine being dragged through court by some of the top lawyers in Silicon Valley while having to pay for your own lawyer for MONTHS.  To take it a step further, Theranos had the personal devices of employees monitored and even had employees and their families followed especially when John Carreyou started interviewing former employees for the story. Honestly, if John Carreyou hadn’t exposed this story, I don’t think the inner workings of Theranos would have been exposed as soon.

There are so many lessons to learn from Theranos for how to NOT operate a company let alone a medical company. I’m truly baffled that such a faulty tool with clear defects not only got past the NIH and CDC but ended up in Walgreens stores…. I think that’s the most incomprehensible part to me. A “wink and a smile” from Elizabeth Holmes got multiple investors on board due to literal FOMO. Theranos is (was) a deplorable company but Theranos is a symptom of the entire tech scene in general. Because investors want “the next unicorn” startup, they will invest millions of dollars into pure speculation. Nikola, FTX, Theranos, Frank, WeWork, and Carvana…. (shall I keep going) are all “darling” tech companies where investors took the word of the founders instead of doing their due diligence. Even bringing in an expert or two to validate the business model would be a good step in the right direction.

This is why I really don’t respect “innovators” like Chamath Palihapitiya, Peter Thiel, and Sam Altman. They had ONE or TWO lifetime jackpots with an investment or being a super early employee of a successful tech company and take those past successes to influence people into thinking they’re clairvoyant.

If you want an old cliche that completely embodies the tech scene right now, it’s “Fake it until you make it”.
