# “Manufacturing Consent: The Political Economy of the Mass Media” by Edwards S. Herman & Noam Chomsky

***Completed Reading October 31st 2023***

In the modern day, a decent amount of Americans are pretty skeptical of massive news outlets because they are aware that these platforms are backed by a few ultrarich individuals who attempt to spin the narrative. People also have access to other smaller news outlets or sources for their information which allows the average individual to generate their own unique opinions (for better or worse).

But back in the early 1950s - 1980s, the average American citizen only had massive news outlets (for the most part) as their best source of news. So these news outlets (Times, New York Times, CBS, Washington Post, etc.) had a major influence on what American citizens perceived, interpreted, and comprehended about the outside world. And the government used this device to their advantage to push the narrative they wanted to push.

For any country that was an ally of the United States or conformed to the American democratic ideology, the government ensured that very minimal bad press was relayed to the American population no matter how abhorrent and deadly that country’s actions were on the ground. But if you’re seen as an enemy or trying to adopt a communist regime, then the news outlets will disparage and denigrate that country even if in comparison to their more favorable contemporaries, they have a much better track record in terms of stability and crimes against humanity. Edwards and Noam bring up the complete dichotomy between El Salvador (seen as an enemy to the American government) and Guatemala/Nicaragua (seen in a favorable light to the American government) during elections in the 1900s. While Guatemala and Nicaragua were being praised for their “fair” elections even though ample evidence to the contrary shows that citizens were being killed, tortured, and raped for opposing the major political party, El Salvador (while not perfect) was being disparaged by news outlets for an “unfair” election even though voters could freely speak against opposing parties without having to worry about their lives being in danger.

Edwards and Noam go over multiple different real-life cases of the media bending (or straight out lying) the truth about the current climate of a region and what’s happening to their citizens. One of the most beneficial outcomes of the internet is that everyone has access to multiple news sources outside of their home countries (for the most part in non-totalitarian countries). So national news media are held to a higher standard when it comes to reporting than before. This doesn’t mean that these outlets are biased or bend the truth to fit their narrative, but at least they can’t outright hide or lie about incidents and events that occur.
