# “Accelerate: Building and Scaling High Performing Technology Organizations” By Nicole Forsgen, Jez Humble, and Gene Kim

***Completed Reading November 12th 2023***

As someone who worked in Agile companies for most of my career, some of the details mentioned in this book could be more relevant for me in terms of continuous integration/deployment, constant prod deployment, and agile rituals. But there are still some esoteric and nuisance focal points in this book that the author points out that I wasn’t aware of and suggests other people looking to improve how their corporations adapt to their culture.

The first part of the book highlights the differences between high, medium, and low-tech performers when it comes to the impact on profitability, productivity, and market share. When teams have a high level of prod deployments, incorporate security (OWASP) into their DevOps process, utilizing CI/CD with thorough testing suites, and allow each team to have a high level of autonomy on how they operate and what technologies to utilize to accomplish their goals, different facets of the organization gets augmented. And these perspectives aren’t just speculative remarks.

In Part II of the book, Nicole, Jez, and Gene detail to the reader how they obtained their data points and validated said data to prove that these metrics were actually legit. Using surveys with vetted unbiased questions combined with statistical testing methods, they were able to find patterns from multiple different companies to generate their conclusions and results.

This is a pretty straightforward read that can be very useful if you’re looking for recommendations on how to improve some of your technology processes in your company.
