# "Good Economics for Hard Times" by Abhijit V. Banerjee and Esther Duflo

***Completed Reading December 27th 2023***

Economics is a crucial and necessary fabric of every established institution that has ever existed in American history. And I’m not just talking about solely the financial side. Economics encompasses finance, statistics, human behavior, and local-to-global collaboration. Abhijit and Esther hit on a lot of topics that are impacted by the use of economics. Immigration, job security, government programs, inequality, and global/local trade intertwine. There are a ton of misconceptions and red herring the layman has about their interpretation of each sector. Even economists disagree amongst themselves (at least backed by my data) on how to resolve economic problems. So I think for this synopsis it’s best if I dive into some potential misconceptions people have about these sectors and how some governments are using the wrong programs to resolve those issues.

In recent years, there has been a huge debate about immigration and how it impacts a certain country’s economy. If you look at Sweden right now, there has been a shift against immigration due to the increase in crime. There seem to be similar sentiments in developed Norwegian nations as their policies are planning to be more strict on immigration. And a similar fervor has existed in certain parts of America for a while. Well based on Abhijit and Esther’s case studies and research, immigration does have a positive impact on a country as long as those foreigners contribute to the local market via employment and taking their compensation and putting it back into the local economy. A good chunk of people believe that if you have an influx of immigrants that come into the local economy, it will take jobs away from local citizens (vis-a-vis with more supply it will be less demand). Well in actuality, the demand line moves to the right because the increase in more local consumers creates more jobs that need to support local businesses. In my personal opinion, I think the issue with immigration that is occurring in countries like Sweden and Finland is the lack of employment for those immigrants which dives into the next point of job security.

There are countless examples of what happens to a region/county if a major corporation leaves that location to relocate or the industry because obsolete due to better and more modern technology. When someone loses their job (especially a company they’ve worked at for 10+ years), it is much more impactful on an emotional level than a loss of income (which is still very impactful). That person, in a sense, has lost their identity and purpose in life. What Abhijit and Esther highlight a lot in this book is how tied a person’s profession is to their sense of self and self-worth. And this is a global phenomenon. Just think of how much pride someone feels being called a doctor in comparison to a custodian due to society’s perception of a professional career path. This is the reason why just handing out UBI (which I’m still a huge fan of) isn’t necessarily enough to make people feel whole. Abhijit and Esther mention multiple programs around the world where the government retrained people who were displaced by market influences to move into more modern fields where they were happier, healthier, and made more money vs. programs that just gave a certain amount of money every month.

Economics should not just be utilized solely by economists. Just from this book alone, there are a good number of approaches we can take to address job loss, citizens’ trust in government, immigration, and proper taxation to strategically improve inequality and help the poorest citizens. As mentioned in this book people distrust economists and politicians the most out of any profession. And the average person’s concerns are warranted to a certain extent, but that doesn’t mean we shouldn’t utilize the proper economic methods to understand our social/economic problem, utilize other case studies to steer our decision-making, and implement programs that aligns with helping the right people. If we can get to that point in society maybe we can bridge the gap between the extremely rich and poor.
