# “Useful Delusions: The Power & Paradox of the Self-Deceiving Brain”: By Shankar Vedantam & Bill Mesler

***Completed Reading January 9th 2024***

Let me ask you a question: How would you feel after you realized you’ve been deceived? I’m pretty sure a blatant attempt of deception against you would elicit some form of rage and mistrust toward the perpetrator. Like playing three-card Monte and realizing the dealer is using a sly of hands to hide the correct card. Or investing your money into an MLM only to realize you need to be at the top of the pyramid to reap the rewards.

But in some cases, (or maybe even most) deceptions are not only a good thing but a necessity in our society. And this is the heart and message of this book. And we deceive ourselves all the time and don’t even realize it. For example when you say, “Good morning! How was your day?” to a co-worker, do you give a shit about their day? Or are you saying this because you’re trying to be cordial and welcoming? I would predict it’ll be the latter. Or when you go on a first date with someone. Is that really the clothes you would wear on a normal day? Are you really showing your 100% authentic self on that first date? And this isn’t necessarily a bad thing. We need some level of deception in society to keep social cohesion and order intact. Think about it if most people didn’t have a verbal/physical filter or some form of social repercussions for their actions, then anarchy would surely be ubiquitious in multiple societies. I would even hazard to guess that the human race wouldn’t even exist if our early homo sapien ancestors didn’t adapt these social behaviors and connections to their tribes and families.

Or think about the individual who needs those parasocial relationships to get them through the day. At first, I never understood how someone can be so infatuated with someone they’ve never met and never had a connection with. But after understanding the power of deception and the case study of “The Church of Love”, these people need that fantastical world in their minds to operate in their day to day. I don’t agree that it’s an appropriate replacement especially if they’re lonely and have no real connections in life, but I can understand the mentality. And sadly as loneliness is increasing more throughout the United States and other parts of the world, this phenomenon of parasocial self-delusion is only going to get worse. And from a macroeconomic and macrosocial standpoint, is this a bad thing? If this delusion is the main drive for this person to contribute to society, is it a net positive? I would say that it is. Because without that delusion, this person would not be as effective for society and the economy.

And finally the section on why religion was quite valuable in previous societies (even today). Shankar and Bill theorize that religion came into existence for two very crucial reasons. The first is the answer for death (or how to handle your consciousness not existing anymore). As humans, it’s incredibly difficult to accept that one day, you won’t be here. Trying to imagine yourself not living is difficult because it’s your conscious imaging there is no conscious you. So humans (and their brains) have to create deceptions of death. That’s why resurrections, the spirit, reincarnations, and legacies are found in most if not all religions. The second is trust and order.  If you have a punitive vengeful deity that will punish you in the most horrific ways based on your actions towards others, people who truly believe will be much more pro-social than someone who doesn’t. And before government, regulations, and law enforcement existed, this was the best way to ensure social order in society. In addition to that, if someone identified as the same religion as someone else, they had much more trust in one another which builds social cohesion. Even look at what would be considered “a nation”. A nation is nothing more than a group of people believing in the rhetoric and historical events of their nation. To the point where they’ll sing hymns, perform rituals, and sacrifice their own lives via the military for the said nation.

And this post doesn’t discredit the credulity of logic, reasoning, and science. For me personally, I lean more towards solutions that have the backing of logic and reasoning over deception. But I think Shankar and Bill’s message here is that the human race needs deceptions for all of us to only function on an individual level but on a global level. Just look at any currency. What makes that piece of paper valuable in one nation but completely useless in another (except for USD)? It’s the delusion that the nation agreed to as the mechanism for trading goods. So if you’re ever wondering what ways have you been deceived, just take a look at the world around.
