# “Editing Humanity: The Crispr Revolution and The New Era of Genome Editing” by Kevin Davies

***Completed Reading February 16th 2024***

The age of customizing our genetic makeup is coming sooner than we think and I honestly doubt society will be prepared for the repercussions of such technology left unchecked. As of right now, we can edit, remove, and insert a genetic sequence into an embryo via CRISPR, TALENs, ZFN, and Prime editing techniques. Just look up what a Chinese geneticist by the name of He Jiankui did in 2018 with two embryos that proceeded to be fertilized by IVF and create two Chinese babies by the name of Lulu and Nana. Now He Jiankui ended up being condemned by the scientific community for this rogue operation because even though he targeted the CCR5 gene which is a key player in proneness to an HIV infection, he didn’t know (or care to understand) what potential side-effects could come from removing/repressing that gene. There is rarely a case where a certain trait is monogenic (determined by a single gene), so geneticists have to be very careful and precise about what changes they make to DNA/RNA.

The book digs into the origins of CRISPR with key figures being highlighted such as Jennifer Doudna, Emmanuel Charpentier, Feng Zhang, Rodolphe Barrangou, and many others. If you want a deep dive into how CRISPR or other gene therapy techniques will be utilized to change our genetic makeup, then this book covers in-depth how it works, how it utilizes RNA, and the companies spawned from such R&D.

What I want to focus on though in this post is the moral quandary our society may find itself in if proper conversations and regulations are not instituted. As I mentioned before, He Jiankui was a rogue scientist who put his potential self-accomplishments before the proper protocols of safe science. And I highly doubt he will be the first one to use these genetic techniques for their gain. And I haven’t personally used CRISPR before but from the context mentioned in this book, it seems like it wouldn’t be too difficult for someone with enough technical wit and proper equipment to utilize CRISPR Cas9 or Cas13 (or other techniques) in conjunction to crRNA and tracRNA to unzip the DNA strand, remove/add/edit a particular genetic sequence, and zip the DNA strand back together with the new mutated DNA to propagate.

Mutations that would take millions of years by nature can be done with these genetic techniques. In a theistic turn of phrase, “We now have the power to play God”. Given enough time, research, and test trials the science community can narrow down which gene sequences impact deadly to mild genetic diseases, cognition, physical traits, emotions, and human behavior. Think about a future when you go into an IVF clinic, the soon-to-be mother provides her eggs, the clinic generates a 3D rendition of the current state of your baby and you answer 500 questions about what you want your baby to “have”. Then after answering those questions, they rerender your new baby based on your criteria. Sounds like science fiction right? Well…. no one thought the internet would allow multiple people from across the world to communicate with each other when it’s early years.

And I want to think about how inequality has gotten progressively worse since the 2008 housing crisis. Just imagine how further the super wealthy would be if they could augment the physical, mental, social, and immuno abilities of their children.

This technology is coming whether society is prepared for it or not. The science community has already put regulations and protocols in place to restrict certain uses of gene therapy. I think we as a society need to seriously discuss how to integrate genetic therapy into our lives. I don’t think this will happen, but government responses should not be to the lackadaisical standard they gave to cryptocurrencies. Because we’re gonna be living in a real dystopia if corporations dictate how gene therapy technology will be utilized.
