# "Venture Deals: Be Smarter Than Your Lawyer and Venture Capitalist (4th Edition)" by Brad Feld & Jason Mendelson

***Completed Reading March 14th 2024***

If you’re an entrepreneur in any capacity or interested in being one, this book is the best bang for your buck in how to navigate the VC, legal, and business waters. Usually, when I read the book, there’s a decent amount of fluff or “filler” that doesn’t seem necessary but the author is trying to fill more pages. This is the exception. Every single chapter is crucial and every section has data that an entrepreneur needs to absorb. I would highly recommend using a highlighter to come back to points that you’ll most likely encounter in the jungle of start-up, mid-sized, and large-cap companies.

The one thing I would remember out of every data point Brad and Jason is that economics and control are the most critical aspects of a term sheet that an entrepreneur should care the most about. Economics in terms of how equity/securities will be divvied out to investors, shareholders, founders, and employees and control in terms of who influences decisions that are made for/on behalf of the company. From Brad and Jason’s POV, everything else ranges from nuisances to inconsequential. But as they highlight, your and/or the VC lawyers can potentially fight for minuscule legalese that unnecessarily holds up the deal being complete and sometimes even worse sour your relationship with your VC partner.

And I do mean partner as in a long-term relationship. As Brad and Jason mention constantly in the book, you and your VCs/investors should have the best interest of the company in mind with the decisions that you all make. This partnership at a well-managed and profitable startup with last for multiple years and it’s key that you and your lead VC are on good terms and constantly open with each other. Think of it like this: This VC/s is investing their time and money into your idea/dream when they didn’t have to. Yes, the expectation is that they 20-100x their initial investment, but it’s still the fact that they trust you and your company to reach that point. And it makes things so much easier if you can trust that your VC has your best interest and that of the company at heart.

There’s ALOT of useful information in this book I can not stress that enough. I can’t go over everything or else this post would be over 10+ pages long. I’ll end on this. The VC/investment world is a lot smaller than you and I think it is. And word of mouth is a very powerful tool to learn if VC should invest in an entrepreneur and if an entrepreneur should trust that a VC is not gonna just use predatory language in the term sheet to screw them over. If you ever become a start-up entrepreneur, please ensure that your representation proceeds you in a good way. Because if you don’t, it’ll be exceedingly more difficult to get funding no matter how 
