# “Strangers in Their Own Land” by Arlie Russell Hochschild

***Completed Reading March 31st 2024***

There has been a chasm-sized divide between the Left and Right for over a decade in a half now. I think we can all agree it’s only getting deeper as issues of sexism, religion, politics, and the environment become even more staunchly contested from both sides. And it’s causing a lot of ostensibly negative connotations to be associated between the Left and Right in perceiving each other. But Arlie (leaning more toward the Left) attempts to climb over the proverbial empathy wall to truly understand the mentality of the Right. This book unravels that deep story not only for the Right but also a little bit for the Left.

The setting of this book is primarily in Louisiana. More specifically the locations of Louisiana where large-cap oil and chemical companies set up factories and refineries. These companies have caused immense amounts of damage to the Bayou ecosystem from killing wildlife to unsettling the landscape of certain areas of rural Louisiana which caused massive sinkholes (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bayou_Corne_sinkhole). Events were as massive as the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill (https://www.britannica.com/event/Deepwater-Horizon-oil-spill) which not only killed a massive amount of wildlife but also left about 8,000-12,000 people unemployed or jobless due to the oil spill ruining fish harvesting. But the incredibly contradictory verbiage (a.k.a. The Great Paradox) that Lousians of the Tea Party believe is that this is a necessary evil to ensure those oil/refinery jobs stay in Louisiana. And what’s doubly wild is that these people don’t want government intervention either (the EPA) and trust that these same companies that caused immense damage to their ecosystem can self-govern and regulate themselves.

And to add more fuel to the fire, their former Governor Bobby Jindal allowed these companies to get massive tax cuts to incentivize them to set up warehouses in Louisiana (and yes he received donations from these oil, gas, and chemical refinement companies). And people still reelected him in 2011 because he utilized pro-business and anti-government regulation rhetoric.

Arlie spoke to multiple different Louisians from multiple classes to get their perspective on why they thought this way even when it was antithetical to their best interest. If anyone should be pro-regulation and environmentalist, it should be the people of Louisiana who suffer the most out of any state from climate change and toxic waste destroying their ecosystem. To something I alluded to earlier one of the major reasons people in Louisiana supported these corporations was due to the perception that a large amount of jobs would be lost if these oil/gas/chemical companies left Louisiana. Even though Arlie points out in the book that more jobs have been lost due to:
1. Chemical/Oil spills ruined wildlife which in turn ruined local fishing businesses and jobs.
2. Due to all the budget cuts Louisiana had to make (since these corporations weren’t paying their proper share in taxes to Louisiana), government jobs in Louisiana were lost.
3. These corporations set up nearby encampment camps for immigrants to do a good chunk of the jobs that could be provided to locals.
   
These Louisians (especially the ones in the Tea Party) truly believed that government assistance was a sign of victimhood. That’s the second reason they are against the government. There’s honor in working a “9-to-5” where you don’t need the government’s help to survive or thrive. And if they had to rely on government programs such as unemployment, food stamps, and WIC (to name a few) then they would feel weak, useless, and disgraced. This bleeds into government programs that can improve their standard of living in terms of carcinogens released into their region, toxic waste being thrown into their waters (potentially polluting their aquifers), and properly regulating these companies to ensure they get punished for this behavior.

The third reason they are anti-government/pro-corporate is the perception of “their place in line”.  By this, they feel that since they work their asses off and put their lives on the line, how come someone from a minority group gets the advantage of affirmation action? Even worse how come I get demonized as a “cis straight white male” in this country when I just trying to provide for my family?

I mentioned this before in one of my previous posts (and Arlie mentions this in this book) that there is a reason Donald Trump resonated so much with the Right. He unabashedly spoke the rhetoric of a typical Tea Party American. From traditional conservative family lifestyles to his war on immigration (especially Muslims and Mexicans), Trump made the Tea Party feel heard even though he was woefully underqualified to be President. Trump made them feel like they weren’t strangers in their land.

As someone who leans left, I easily fall into the emotional fervor of judging the Right. Why would they vote for the guy who openly admits to sexually assaulting women? Why would they vote for candidates that decrease or remove the governmental services meant to help them? Why do they not believe in climate change when all the evidence points to it existing? Why are they refusing to get vaccinated?

But taking a step back as Arlie did, we have more in common with each other. If the Left and Right can get past the empathy wall, I truly believe some solutions can put our country overall in a better position. A more equitable position. It may seem improbable, but as Arlie has shown, she had to understand the deep story of the Tea Party to get the full picture of why the Right believed what they believed. That is the power of empathy.
