# “The Abandonment of the Jews: America and the Holocaust, 1941-1945” by David S. Wyman

***Completed Reading May 9th 2024***

Everyone throughout the world is fully aware of the atrocities and simply diabolical massacre of six million European Jews during World War II. It’s one of the largest humanitarian stains in modern history. But could this all have been avoided with better responses from the allied forces? TL;DR yes, but David Wyman dives into how brazenly amoral American and other Allied leaders’ reactions were to save the European Jews.
There are multiple different reasons America and other Allied leaders were so tardy to set plans and organizations to save the European Jews actively and I’ll dive into each one in sections:
1. Disbelief in the grotesque reports: Given that similar news of atrocities reported during WWI ended up being inaccurate, it was hard for major publications in the United States to believe reports coming in from Europe about massacres that seemed farcical. Especially with reputations on the line, no publications wanted to report telegrams that could potentially be false.
2. Lack of visibility in major publications: Even when reports about the Holocaust had more validity around them, major publications would either not report about the events of the Holocaust until much later on in the war or they would have minor blurbs in the inner pages where fewer people would read let alone notice. And since major newspapers and magazines during the late 30s and early 40s were the prime way for American citizens to get their news, not many Americans were even aware of the concentration camps and mass slaughtering of European Jews early on in the war.
3. The FDR administration (and lack of response): In the early years of WWII, Jewish leaders from organizations such as The Joint Distribution Committee constantly reached out to and met with FDR to figure out plans to save the Jews while not hindering the war effort. And they were constantly met with indifference or redirected to the State Department which didn’t help either. Worse when they did have unity amongst a majority of the Jewish organization and held the Bermuda Conference to figure out solutions to save European Jews, nothing came of it which hit the morale of the American Jewish community. On top of that, the FDR administration could have been the front-runners in setting up camps in America to house European Jews who were looking for safe havens, but the FDR administration refused (until much later on in the war) to provide an adequate amount of visas for European Jews. This inaction rippled across other nations as they saw no reason to allow European Jews a haven if America didn’t do it. It wasn’t until an outcry of protest to save the European Jews occurred throughout America that FDR felt he had to do something. But even then, FDR had to be very cautious with how he approached his response because Congress was not in favor of diverting any resources to saving European Jews, and it was an election year during 1944 so he couldn’t be seen as “Pro-Jew” because some American citizens would see him as favoring Jews over other foreigners.
4. Anti-semitism/xenophobia: There was a good chunk of anti-semitism occurring throughout Europe and America (some inconspicuous and others blatant). This in conjunction with an “influx of Jews” perception caused a lot of nations to close their borders to take in Jews who’ve successfully escaped from concentration camps. David Wyman even brings up the point that there are multiple times when the American War Department and other European naval fleets would claim that they didn’t have enough ships to transport Jewish refugees but ships of other non-Jewish refugees are transported around Europe or to America without any issues.
5. “Winning the war is the best way to save the European Jews”: David Wyman brings up constantly that in the later years of the war when America and European leaders were fully aware of what was happening in Poland (primarily Auschwitz) they constantly said, “Winning the war is the best way to save the European Jews”. So they allocated the majority of their military resources to fighting the Axis forces and provided minimal resources to assist and rescue the European Jews in concentration camps. And it’s not like there weren’t proposals given to the FDR and Churchill Administration for how they could still assist in the rescuing of Jewish prisoners with little to no impact on the military resources. There were even times when Allied bombers (with little to no resistance due to their decimation of the Axis air forces) could destroy rail lines that led to concentration camps or destroyed gas chambers/crematoriums to drastically reduce the rate at which Jewish prisoners were killed. But none of the proposals were taken into consideration due to the excuse, “Winning the war is the best way to save European Jews”. Even when the War Refugee Board was formed to assist in saving the European Jews, they were hindered by the War Department and woefully underfunded (they had to rely on Jewish Organizations to get funding).
   
There are more reasons for the very inadequate response from the Allied nations, but I’ll end with this. No one can say what could have happened if a different response had been given throughout WWII, but it is fair to say that the response from America and the other Allied nations for their approach to saving the European Jews was woefully ineffective and might I say revolting. The callousness to properly provide some form of assistance or help to Jewish prisoners especially when it became transparent what atrocities were occurring in Poland is morally reprehensible. It’s probably the biggest stain on the FDR administration and for good reason. Thousands or hundreds of thousands of Jewish prisoners may or may not have been able to be saved with much better responses and attempts of rescue, but it’s very clear that the inaction and lack of response from the Allied nations played a part in over six million Jews losing their lives during WWII.
