# “Our Revolution” By Bernie Sanders (My Opinion)

***Completed Listening May 21st 2024***

I rarely write about a book I listen to on audible, but I couldn’t resist giving my opinion about many topics Bernie dives passionately into. I’ve been a huge Bernie fan since he came onto the scene during his campaign for the Democratic Primary Candidate during the 2016 elections, and this book has only elevated my fanaticism towards him. From his time as Mayor of Burlington, Vermont to being the prominent face of progress for the Average American, Bernie has consistently fought for equality, equity, taxation on the 1%, and fighting against corporate bailouts.

I would highly recommend reading/listening to the book, but this isn’t a typical synopsis. This post is about my opinion on the major topics Bernie presented in the book. And I think it’s best if I just itemize each of these topics.

P.S. I’m a huge proponent of open discussion and dialectic on topics like these. I highly doubt you dear reader will agree with everything I say here. Feel free to comment on anything you disagree with and let’s have a friendly discussion about where each of us is coming from. I think these are the best ways to learn about opposing perspectives and adjust each other’s frame of reference. 

## Climate Change
   
I think it should be pretty clear global warming and climate change is real. Over the past half-century, scientists have been warning about the potential negative impacts on our planet of emitting greenhouse gases into our atmosphere. Melting ice caps in Greenland and Antarctica (which contributes to rising sea levels), increased wildfires, hurricanes, and tsunamis around the world, and record levels of heat are the consequences we have to now deal with from allowing oil/gas companies such as Exxon Mobil, BP, Citgo, etc… to not only frank and emit carbon dioxide but giving them tax subsidies to perform said harmful operations. What’s even more damning is Exxon Mobil knew about the consequences of emitting carbon dioxide and methane into the atmosphere DECADES ago and decided to hide this from the public and deny any evidence that these gases were harmful to our planet. At the pace we’re going, natural disasters will destroy communities around the world, and millions of people will be displaced and killed due to the negligence and lobbying of these large oil conglomerates.

## Politics

Our political system tilts heavily in supporting major corporations over the Average American citizen. Lobbying, hush money, tax breaks, and “trickle-down economics” have destroyed the American dream years ago and greatly dissipated the average American’s trust in our government. The apotheosis of this was the 2006 housing market. Major banks and other financial institutions made risky investments in derivatives (which they couldn’t explain how the derivative algorithm worked) and packaged together subprime mortgages and other risky investments into bonds. And with backdoor deals and financial incentives credit rating agencies such as Standard and Poor’s, Moody, and Fitch gave these risky bonds AAA scores labeling these bonds the safest investment. Millions of retirement accounts throughout the U.S. would invest in these bonds assuming they were very secure. So when millions of people started defaulting on their subprime mortgages due to increased interest rates and an inability to pay, those mortgages became practically worthless and caused the Great Recession. And what happened to those banks and financial institutions that caused this entire collapse? THEY WERE BAILED OUT BY TAXPAYER MONEY!! It should be no surprise why the Average American does not trust our government and institutions. We need bills like the Federal Election Campaign Act (https://www.fec.gov/.../contribution-limits-for-2023-2024/) that not only restrict the amount an individual can donate to a candidate/representative/supreme court justice but also any entities in any form (e.g. NGO, For-Profits, Trusts, etc…). And this shouldn’t be limited to monetary donations. Any asset based on market rate should be limited. And we need more senators/congressmen/justices like Senator Bernie Sanders who consciously push back donations from big companies and fight against lobbying. Joe Biden is making some progress with his contribution to unions, forgiving billions of dollars in student debt, and decriminalizing marijuana but we have a long way to go in this country to have political institutions truly be for the people.

## Racism/Sexism in America
   
We have made great strides in America to become a welcoming heterogeneous country overall. Of course, there are pockets of blatant racism throughout the country, but we have ostracized and shunned that type of behavior on a national level. But there’s still work to be done to give minorities and women more of an even playing field. As a black male, affirmative action allowed me to get a full ride to my alma mater. And I would be dishonest in saying that I haven’t been afforded a great life in comparison to the average black male in America. But that’s the thing, why am I the outlier? When I hear someone say, “That was my ancestors who burned Black Wall Street. So black people should get over it.” Or “This other minority group is doing fine. What’s black people’s excuse?” Well, these people are eliminating the past impacting the future. When Nixon declared his “War on Drugs” campaign in the 70s, black people were convicted for much longer sentences than white people due to black people using crack vs. white people using cocaine. This drastically increased the amount of black males going to prison. Then in the ‘90s, President Clinton introduced the “3 strike rule” which significantly increased the prison sentences of someone convicted of 2 or more felonies (and possession of crack cocaine was considered a felony). This and conjunction with other factors (e.g. receiving welfare only if the father was not in the same household as his family) caused the necessary family structure any child needs to become successful to be broken. Look at any longitudinal study and see the impact on a child that doesn’t have their father in their life. That’s why the track race analogy is apropos for black people compared to other races. That’s why affirmative action, subsidies for mortgages, DEI initiatives in organizations (when done right), and other minority programs give us a level playing field.

For women, it’s clear that both partners in a household need to work to pay for all their expenses. This makes it very difficult for a couple to have kids (which is why birth rates in developed nations are so low). But for couples that do have kids, the U.S. hasn’t set mothers up for success. On numerous occasions, corporations will fire a soon-to-be mother for trying to take maternity leave or try to balance work with childcare (since the burden is on the mother to take care of the children even if both couples work). Multiple studies have shown that a woman’s career trajectory declines after having a child while men don’t get impacted. These developed countries implicitly give women an ultimatum of their careers or a family. And these countries wonder why their workforce in the next 20 years will be depleted.

## Immigration

I truly believe that one of the best things about America for all its faults is any foreigner’s ability to become successful. America is truly the land of opportunity. We’re a heterogeneous pluralistic society that welcomes different ethnicities, races, cultures, and religions (well…. depending on where you are in America). And it’s not just a one-way street for this relationship, it’s truly symbiotic. America brings in the best of the best around the world to study at our best universities, contribute to the economy, and create new businesses. When Republicans complain about “our borders being open” and “immigrants are going to take your jobs”, I believe this is hyperbolic rhetoric to point fingers at a group of people for the problems their audiences are experiencing. Immigration in all forms contributes massively to the success of America from the agricultural to tech sectors. I agree that we should still have policies for immigrants to become American citizens but there should be some bylaws that say if we need more jobs in a certain sector (e.g. trade jobs), then train and employ immigrants to do those jobs. After a certain amount of time if they haven’t committed any crimes and have contributed to the economy, then allow them to be a U.S. citizen.

These are the major areas that Bernie focused on in his book. There are other topics he hit on, but then I might as well write a book about my opinions at that point. As I mentioned earlier, I don’t expect everyone who reads this to fully agree with me, so please feel free to post a comment and let’s have an open discussion.
