# “Managing Humans: Biting and Humorous Tales of Software Engineering Manager” By Michael Lopp

***Completed Listening June 7th 2024***

I’ll keep this synopsis succinct and concise since the author did the same thing with this book.

If you’ve been a software developer before, you’re aware of an organization’s traditional hierarchical structure (Individual Contributors, Leads, Managers, Senior Managers, Directors, VPs, and finally Executive Suite). Especially at large-cap corporations, it’s pretty daunting to understand how information gets from the Executive level all the way down to junior developers to keep the metaphorical engine going. Apparently, more often than not corporations from small to large are doing a bad job with it.

And that’s what the core of this book is about. This book focuses on how to be a great Engineering Manager and how organizations can properly communicate through processes and dissemination of information. If you’re fortunate enough to have never worked at a company with opaque and obfuscated direction and questionable decision-making, well… you’re one of the lucky few to avoid the crazy train. Not to mention if you ever had to engage with leadership that has a massive ego/insecurity problem.

Michael helps the reader figure out how to navigate those treacherous waters. Once you become a part of the leadership team, galvanize and grow your team properly so that they contribute to the product and spread their expertise to others in the organization.

Especially for someone becoming a manager for the first time, this book might save you a few pitfalls that a typical neophyte manager might fall into.
