# “Like, Comment, Subscribe: Inside YouTube’s Chaotic Rise to World Domination” by Mark Bergen

***Completed Reading July 14th 2024***

“Is YouTube a net positive or negative to society?” You will get multiple points on the coordinate plane from numerous people (I would be interested to see what the hottest section on that coordinate plane would be). Billions of hours of video content are uploaded to YouTube every day. And as you can imagine it’s very difficult (honestly impossible) to police every single second of content posted. But before I get ahead, let’s start at YouTube’s beginnings.

Chad Hurley, Steve Chen, and Jawed Karim were the founders and inventors of YouTube. Having seen other video platforms being either too slow or not compatible with external services (basically only having media format operational on those video platform’s websites), they decided to make a site that allowed anyone from anywhere to upload their lives using Adobe Flash as the video media provider. (which was universally compatible, especially with HTML, so it was easy to embed a YouTube video on any external site). And they wanted to make it free for anyone to upload too.

So as you can imagine, hosting a video service that runs videos on demand while storing thousands of videos in the mid-2000s (remember cloud infrastructure wasn’t a thing yet) wasn’t cheap. They had to utilize dedicated servers to store the videos and run the app and they used a 3rd party vendor to do this. So the team always came close to maxing out credit cards to meet payments. Even with a good amount of users early on, it was clear the team couldn’t keep going at this pace financially without an investor. Or….. an acquisitionn.

In November 2006, Google acquired YouTube to bolster its media division. With hindsight being 20/20 this would probably be one of the best acquisitions made by any tech company to date with the level of influence and revenue generation that YouTube has. But that wasn’t clear back then and it wasn’t an easy road for YouTube.

With Google acquiring YouTube, YouTube had a monumental boost in resources and technology. Growth was the only plan for Google with YouTube and they didn’t wait. YouTube always paid creators who had a good chunk of subscribers, but now YouTube started setting up a partner program and working with MCNs (Multiple Channel Networks) to grow their brand and internal partners. This became a viable path for creators to make YouTube their full-time job. But with YouTube’s free-flow mentality, some bad actors naturally came into the fold.

Naturally, YouTube had advertisers wanting to broadcast to their audience. But one of the most treacherous times in YouTube’s history was figuring out how to properly police problematic/abhorrent content. From ISIS killing videos, Nazi sympathetic influencers, and misogynist pundits YouTube early on had a hard to ensure advertiser content wasn’t displayed on deplorable videos. This became a hot topic with news outlets too when parents were complaining that their kids were recommended snuff videos (e.g. “Elsa and Spiderman Has a Baby” or “Peppa Pig Beats Her Dad”) and the algorithm sees these videos as “kid friendly” based on the title. This became a huge problem when major companies started boycotting YouTube in 2017 (coined Adpocalypse). This explains why YouTube has so many policies now (i.e. Demonetization, “3 strike rules”, “Copyright Claims”) to clean up their site of bad actors in conjunction with using their secretive algorithm to remove the need for human intervention.

So back to the question: “Is YouTube a new positive or negative to society?”. To be honest, I don’t know. I didn’t know much about Susan Wojcicki role as YouTube CEO, but after reading this book, I think took the best approach to handling “policing” content on YouTube. It’s very clear to most sane people what despicable and cruel content is (which YouTube properly removes from their site). But it’s a blurry line when it comes to “hate speech” and “strong opinions” on certain topics. And I think Susan took the best approach to handling this ambiguous line: Just let people speak. YouTube especially during the COVID pandemic did the right thing is just having informative notes displaying when points brought up in a video are inaccurate. This gives the creator or speaker a chance to still speak their minds, but the viewer can be informed that this might be misinformation.

I have my opinions about certain creators on the site, but one of the best things about America is the freedom of speech whether you hate it or not. Of course, we need to be vigilant of misinformation and still understand that certain dispersions can cause massive harm (just look at Alex Jones bombastic vitriol being spewed about the Sandy Hook victims and their parents as a prime example). But I think YouTube is a platform where anyone from anywhere can post anything they want and feel like they are being heard.
