# “Apollo’s Arrow: The Profound And Enduring Impact of Coronavirus on the Way We Live” by Nicholas A Christakis

***Completed Reading August 16th 2024***

We can all agree that the COVID-19 pandemic was one of the most deadly phenomena to occur on an international level. Both short and long-term physiological impacts will and have devastated multiple family and communities. Nicholas gives a deep dive from an epidemiological standpoint of the history of similar pandemics and how responses from a cultural, scientific, biological, and communal level can have a short-lived and innocuous pandemic or a longitudinal deadly one.

Plagues have been in human history since the first homo sapiens. We’re so intertwined with viruses that we can take the DNA of our ancestors (and even our cousins the Neanderthals) and find similar DNA coding between modern viruses to viruses in our ancestors from multiple millennia ago. We can go as far back as the Plague at Athens between 430-427 BCE where Typhus, typhoid, smallpox, the bubonic plague, or a combination of these viruses are suspects as the causes of the plague. Viruses follow the same biological tendencies of every other species: survival and reproduction. So it’s in the best interest of the virus to not only remain alive in whatever host it’s infecting but also to infect other hosts to propagate the next generation.

As mentioned before humans’ responses to plagues throughout history can cause a plague to fade away or last for years. In conjunction with this, how infectious and deadly the virus is also has an impact on how long a plague lasts. Just compare the pandemics of SARS-1 to SARS-2 (a.k.a COVID-19). Due to how deadly SARS-1 was (much higher chance of death compared to SARS-2) and how less infectious it was from 2002 to 2004, SARS-1 infected 8,000 people and killed 10% of those infected. Nicholas uses the metrics basic reproduction number (R0), incubation period, and asymptomatic hosts.

The basic reproduction number is the number of people infected on average per person. So for example Ebola had a R0 of 1.5 to 2.5 while COVID-19 was 2 to 3 (and sometimes reaching 5 to 8 in some cases). So even though Ebola was vastly more deadly than COVID-19 it was easier to contain compared to COVID-19. In conjunction with this, once someone becomes infected with COVID-19, the incubation period (the time it takes before the infected person displays symptoms) could range from 2 to 14 days. This means the user could get other people infected without even realizing they had COVID-19. And to add to the perfect storm of the COVID-19 pandemic, 20% to 40% of people who contracted the virus were asymptomatic, so they would never know without being tested if they have COVID. All this could arguably be the main component for why COVID-19 spread as fast as it did so ubiquitously even when countries shut their borders to international travelers.

With such a short period for major epidemic organizations to find the source of COVID-19, figure out the DNA sequence of COVID, construct a slew of vaccines to combat the virus, properly test to ensure little to no alternative health ailments arise from the vaccine, and finally distribute the vaccine to everyone, countries needed to implement proper NPI (Nonpharmaceutical interventions) as quickly and efficiently as possible.

Nonpharmaceutical interventions are practices that would reduce the spread of a virus. In the case of COVID-19, this meant wearing a mask, social distancing, and frequently washing your hands. As mentioned before since it takes a substantial amount of time to properly administer vaccines to the wide populace, these measures are crucial to ensure the least amount of people die. Not only that but this also ensures hospitals and medical facilities aren’t overly inundated with sick patients which puts a strain on resources and medical personnel.

This book was published on October 27th, 2020. So basically it was in the midst of the pandemic, and now that the world has hindsight, it should be blatantly obvious that America’s handling and response to the COVID-19 pandemic was aberrant and lackadaisical. COVID-19 in America (and in other nations to be fair) went from being a scientific/epidemic issue to a political one. Citizens refused to wear masks because it was seen as “repressing their civil rights and freedom”. Donald Trump spread misinformation about not only the severity of the disease but also when he finally understood that COVID-19 was out of control, he recommended pseudoscientific solutions such as injecting bleach and taking Hydroxychloroquine. And if you look at the number of cases and deaths during the summer of 2020, you see a spike due to people not taking the severity of COVID-19 and the CDC-suggested guidelines seriously.

Who truly knows how many deaths could have been avoided if everyone in America properly followed the NPIs set in place by the CDC and expert epidemiologists, I’ll say a similar phrasing I said when I wrote my synopsis of “The Precipice”: If the COVID-19 pandemic was a test for how America responds to a pandemic, it would be a D. Just for a second imagine if the SARS-2 strain had the same potency but just as deadly as Ebola. Imagine how many people would have died in the United States because they felt wearing a mask and social distancing was seen as a “government impeding on their liberties”. And we have a standing president who not only refuses to acknowledge the advice of epidemic experts and institutions but instead provides his own solutions that are untested and incredibly dangerous.   As Nicholas mentions, pandemics and plagues are just a part of human history. As we adapt, viruses and their prodigies will too. The real question is will we be prepared if we have to handle a Bubonic sized plague or will we revert to our political/tribe guidelines?
