# “Debt: The First 5,000 Years” by David Graeber

***Completed Reading September 30th 2024***

I honestly can say this book has invoked a philosophical question I’ve never really thought about: “Does debt have more meaning outside of the financial/economic realm?” By that, I mean thinking about debt as a human social element. David Graeber digs deep into this phenomenon.

Starting as early as the Sumerian period with civilizations like Mesopotamia, there wasn’t a concept of a “currency”. And especially with a much smaller society, the concept of debt was a relationship built on trust. So if I were to allow my neighbor to borrow a clay pot, it was agreed upon that my neighbor would allow me to borrow something later on with no questions asked. Ironically some civilizations in Africa during this time saw debt as a burden. So if I were to give my neighbor a gift it would be expected that I would “take care” of them for eternity where anything they wanted, I need to give to them due to them officially being under my care. Tangent aside, the birth of “debt” was much more personable and relationship-driven. And what came with that is the concept of being in debt to someone. What happens if someone owes a creditor so much that there’s no material possession that the debtor can pay? Introduce the concept of slavery. Slavery (indebted servitude) is the only way the debtor can “pay off his debt”. This is the period where daughters and wives were given to creditors in exchange for clearing most or all of the debt. And slavery was seen as a complete expungement of your identity. You are now the property of the creditor and your previous self ceases to exist.

But once we get into the Axial Age this mindset changes in major civilizations that believed in Judaism and Buddhism. Now creditors are seen as malignant figures in society. So much so that there were frequent debt-forgiveness policies whenever the peasants and peons gained too much debt to prevent rebellions. There was much dichotomy in society about how to handle debt due to some contradictions with each religion’s rhetoric in conjunction with the expectation of interest on loans given to debtors. It got to the point where bankers could be sentenced to death if they couldn’t provide bullions to their customers at any given moment.

As we get into the modern days with revered economists such as Keynes and Krugmen, we get into our current understanding of debt, but there is some residue of the before times that still bleeds into our concept of debt. Instead of indentured servitude, wage laborers must work to pay their debts. Especially when Nixon moved from the gold standard, we ballooned the deficit in the United States.

And I think the major message David wanted to portray was emphasized by Nixon’s decision here. Because Nixon moved off the gold standard to fund the Vietnam War. Throughout history as long as the concept of debt existed in major civilizations, the power of their industrial military institutions is what drove the monetary system established by said establishment. The U.S. Treasury bonds and dollars wouldn’t even be close to the purchasing power it does without our military. America’s military is ubiquitous around the globe and has the most powerful weapons out of all the superpower countries.

Let me end with this question: What would our society look like without debt/capitalism? Before reading this book, I would have thought it would be a utopian society. But now….. I’m not entirely sure if there is an alternative that won’t lead to anarchy.
