# “As Gods: A Moral History of the Genetic Age” by Matthew Cobb

***Completed Reading December 4th 2024***

Should we worry about the moral, socioeconomic, and global impacts of the genetic techniques we utilize and expand on much more than we do now? By us, I mean every citizen around the world. Depending on a person’s stance, depth of knowledge on such subject matters, and current status in life, everyone will probably give a different answer to this question.

Matthew Cobb goes over the growth of genetic techniques such as TALEN, ZFN, gene drive, somatic theory, and, of course, CRISPR and how they currently and potentially will impact our future for better or worse. For example, GMO crops and vegetables are ubiquitously used around the world. For example, there is an experiment on strawberries to be more frost-resistant by scientists inserting a gene from the Arctic flounder fish into the strawberries. But even if it’s not germline edits, humans have been cross-breeding species to get the characteristics they prefer for a particular purpose (e.g. humans back approximately 20,000 - 40,000 years ago only breeding wolves that exhibited docile behavior, which allowed for the domestication of dogs). It’s thanks to GMO crops that have led to a dramatic drop in starvation around the world.

But these genetic techniques aren’t the magic bullet that a lot of people (myself included) had initially thought it would be. To be honest, after I finished reading “Code Breaker” and “Editing Humanity,” I truly believed we were on the cusp of true gene editing, where we could manipulate any sequence of DNA strands to get the desired outcome we wanted. But after reading this book, it’s a lot more complex than I initially thought. First, very few genes are pleiotropy absent (a.k.a only one function). So, if you change a gene, it can have potentially unintended effects from just changing one function. Even something as simple as eye color is polygenic and isn’t as simple of a change as people expect.

So then, we have nothing to worry about in terms of human editing, right? Well…. that’s only one component of the potential dangers of genetic manipulation. In this book, there’s mention of scientists “reviving” deadly viruses like the bubonic plague and the Spanish Flu virus, which each respectively caused millions of deaths. They were able to accomplish this by retrieving genetic material from the bodies of victims infected with the disease and sequencing the gene in a lab. While this seems like a plot from Resident Evil for scientists accidentally releasing a deadly pathogen out of the lab and infecting the entire planet, our fears can be alleviated a little bit by the fact that labs that have permission to work on such dangerous pathogens have to go through a lot of regulations and auditing to ensure the lab is as secure as possible. And as I mentioned earlier, it’s extremely difficult and tedious to sequence genomes correctly. Matthew even mentions that biohackers and terrorists have tried, but they either didn’t have the knowledge or facilities to properly execute sequencing deadly pathogens. But that doesn’t mean we can rest on our laurels that nothing bad will happen. In the 1960s-70s, there was a Soviet Union program called “Biopreparat” that was suspected of working on deadly pathogens such as smallpox, anthrax, Marburg, and Ebola to put into bioweapons. Only after the Soviet Union collapsed in 1991  was it finally confirmed by a Russian scientist that defected named Ken Alibek that this was revealed to the public.

This technology will only get better as time goes on. New techniques are being discovered annually at this point. Just look at the Nobel Prize winners of this year, Demis Hassabis and John Jumper, who used AlphaFold to significantly accelerate the process of predicting protein structures from their amino acid sequences. This will vastly improve the discovery of virus and disease genetic code and find treatment much faster for these pathogens. So, these conversations need to occur at a global scale about how to properly handle these new techniques and technologies. Because if it’s any indication of how the response to the COVID-19 pandemic was milquetoast at best and woefully unprepared at worst on a global scale. So imagine if we make these genetic techniques easily accessible to bad actors who want to release a genetic sequence for Ebola, but it can be contracted from respiratory droplets? Let’s hope we don’t have to experience that future.
