# “Savage Inequalities: Children in America’s Schools” By Jonathan Kozol

***Completed Reading October 25th 2024***

I initially didn’t realize that is book was written around the late 80s to early 90s. So when the author points that out in the preface, I wondered how similar public/private schools of a couple of generations ago compare to the school system now. I’ll dig more into that towards the end of my review

Jonathan went around major urban cities in America to compare the city’s poorest schools to those of the wealthiest. And the inequalities are pretty transparent. The poorest district has vastly fewer resources, a worse quality of teachers, and a much higher drop-out rate than the wealthiest ones. But what really infuriates me about these circumstances comes in three focal points mentioned by Jonathon.

1. The environment of the poor districts is bleak at best and physically dangerous at worst. Jonathan talks about his visit to East St. Louis, where major businesses leaving the area caused a massive unemployment epidemic. Chemical waste was dumped near or in the city, so most of the residents were exposed to harmful chemicals both on the ground and in the air. The children are aware of these dangerous hazards in their vicinity but have acquiesced to the situation. Other poor neighborhoods like Chicago have to deal with criminals within and outside of the school. Due to lack of funding, the schools themselves have broken windows, leaks in the roof if it rains, holes in the wall, lack of equipment or books for students, and auditoriums that are dilapidated. Classrooms are packed with kids (sometimes two classes are occurring in the same room) who don’t get the attention they need because their teacher has too many kids to focus on. In comparison to rich schools, it’s night and day.
2. With an environment like that, you’d think taxes would be funneled into the poorer schools so they can resolve a decent amount of issues so that at least the school itself can provide proper accommodations and equipment to their students. But, of course, that’s not how this works. Parents in wealthy districts (from what Jonathan Kozol brings up a decent amount) believe that if their tax dollars were reallocated more towards the poorer school districts, it would be “a waste of money.” Their mindset is that “money won’t solve their problems. It’s the parents that need to be more responsible for the education of their children”.  I think it’s pretty upsetting that even back in that time, these parents didn’t understand the hypocrisy of their statements. Their children have AP courses, state-of-the-art faculties, multiple extracurricular activities, top-notch teachers, and the potential to go to Ivy League colleges/universities BECAUSE of the funding the school gets. I’m not saying that parental intervention should have an impact on the success of a child (it does and their research papers to back that up), but the state/local officials can only do so much when it comes to parenting. But they can have an impact of how much funding the school district gets to allow these kids outlets they would have never been exposed to without the proper funding.
3. The proposal for desegregation has been mentioned multiple times in this book. Look up the following cases: “Milliken v. Bradley” and “Rodriguez v. San Antonio.” These are cases that tried to force the government to improve the educational opportunities of poor children. Milliken v. Bradley, in particular, was focused on desegregating schools in Detroit so the poor and rich kids could go to the same schools together. When Milliken v. Bradley got to the Supreme Court, it was sadly turned down because “there was no showing of significant violation by the 53 outlying school districts and no evidence of any interdistrict violation or effect.” Saying there wasn’t enough evidence that the wealthy districts were taking advantage of the poorer districts. Which still doesn’t address what’s the issue of interdistrict schooling. That’s all the case is asking. I wonder what things would have looked like if the Supreme Court actually approved this case.

Well…. we can’t change time, so we have to look at today and see if things have changed for the better, worse, or stayed the same. In my opinion, it seems like things have pretty much stayed the same. At least in more liberal states, there is an effort to have kids of a lower socioeconomic status have the opportunity to live in better neighborhoods and attend more affluent schools (just look at Chicago with its Section 8 policies). It’s a step in the right direction, at the very least. While in more conservative states, it’s either stagnant or gotten worse. It seems to be a combination of a decent amount of occurrences (more educated families live in liberal states, conservative states have lost more work due to automation or companies moving overseas, an increase in homeschooling, defunding of educational programs), but it’s not looking particularly promising for those states in terms of bucking the traditional trend of rich vs. poor districts.

I still think it’s daunting that we still have a huge divide between educational quality and socioeconomic status in the country. And some of the same rhetorical points of “It’s the family that will fix the child’s reading and math scores” and “It’s not my responsibility to pay for other people’s children’s education” still exist today. But as I mentioned earlier liberal states and cities are trying to buck the trend and institute real solutons and policies that will help less fortunate kids. And in my opinion, if my taxes have to go up slightly more to help a few kids have a brighter future, then I have no qualms or regrets about where my taxes go.
