# “How the Mind Works” By Steven Pinker

***Completed Reading February 13th 2025***

If you’re truly interested in a book that dives deeply into the most basic aspects of human existence from a psychological and physiological perspective, this is definitely worth a read. Steven dives into the abstraction of consciousness and how human relationships are formed for the purpose of the human and how they can interpret three-dimensional objects.

Ever since the first hominids existed over six to seven million years ago, evolution and natural selection have impacted every aspect of what makes humans human. For every multicellular organism to ever exist on planet Earth, the main “objective” is survival and reproduction. Genes aren’t consciously trying to propagate their lineage, but every species, from extinct to living, consciously attempts to propagate their familial lineage. This is the crucial epistemological concept that drives Steven’s message in this book because to understand why humans are the way they are, we have to reverse-engineer from the perspective of survival and reproduction.

So, for example, why do humans enjoy listening to music? On the surface, listening to music doesn’t provide any advantageous survival or reproductive properties for our homo sapien ancestors. Well, that’s where reverse-engineering can give us some adequate theories for why music brings us joy. Dopamine is a neurological chemical in the brain that gets released from experiencing pleasure or rewards. Dopamine is a crucial driver for our ancestors, foraging for food (ones rich in sugar to give an energy boost) and mating (it goes without saying the pleasure humans get from intercourse). Humans are creatures of patterns. Patterns make us feel comfortable, recognizable, and secure (all senses that our foraging ancestors utilized to ensure they could survive in the world). So, combining dopamine with pattern recognition, we get to the theory that music with consistent intonations and metronomes brings humans pleasure. That’s why when we hear a cacophony of random noises, it usually elicits annoyance and irritation for our ears. The same theory can be applied to our visual prowess. When we look at art, it contains consistent depth perception, color patterns, and symmetrical lines, we get visual pleasure. On the flip side, if we see uneven lines and random colors in an amorphous state, it’s not appealing to the eyes.

Another example: Why do we care about a human we have never met before? It’s pretty obvious why we care about our families even from a solely genetic perspective (we want our genes to continue even when we die). But why should I care if some guy in France was murdered by his spouse in a heat of rage? As far as I know, this person has no connection to my lineage, and I have no tribal ties with this person. Well, let’s reverse-engineer this question. For hominids (and other primate species) to be able to survive in the treacherous animal world where compared to other animals we had little to no physical advantages to defend ourselves, we had to build communities to improve our survivability. To do that, you had to trust an/other tribe/s even if you didn’t know them because divided, you’re easy prey for a predator. And I think it’s very crucial to reiterate that evolution and “fitness” are not consciously being enacted here. The hominids that were genetically predisposed to being isolationists were most likely to be killed vs. the hominids that were more welcoming of other hominids. This, at a very rudimentary level, is how genes get propagated in a species. So, going back to my main point of this paragraph, due to those ancestors propagating those genes, we modern-day homo sapiens are more empathetic, more communal, and more friendly towards other homo sapiens even though we don’t know who the other person is.

There are TONs of examples like these throughout this book, and it’s always fascinating to see philosophers and psychologists reverse-engineering the anthropological history of what makes humans... human. If these types of questions tickle your fancy, I would definitely recommend this book!
