# “Woke, Inc.: Inside Corporate America’s Social Justice Scam” By Vivek Ramaswamy

***Completed Reading April 1st 2025***

Let me get my bias out of the way now. I’m not a fan of Vivek Ramaswamy. I didn’t know about who he was until he was announced to be running DOGE with Elon Musk. Afterward, I did a little bit of research about him and I wasn’t a fan of his abrasive attitude toward opposing views and his pro-capitalist mentality toward issues Americans were facing (which explains his ostensible involvement with DOGE). So with that out of the way, just know that my review will be a bit more critical than I usually am of previous books I’ve read.  Are corporations using social justice, DEI, and minority/women empowerment for cheap brownie points to get more consumers to purchase their products? Vivek thinks they are; even worse, they are using these social programs to mask even more nefarious practices underneath the hood. It’s not hard to find corporations who do this. Levi and other jean companies make advertisements about each jeans bought contributing to some non-profit mission while using cheap labor in Thailand in conjunction with the dyes polluting third-world country’s water. Coca-Cola making a tone-deaf advertisement with Kendall Jenner using their product to unite protestors and police officers over a can of Coca-Cola.

Before BlackRock and other venture capitalist started involving ESGs in their rating of corporations, Volkswagon had a scandal in 2015 where they lied about how emission-optimized their vehicles were which before the scandal gave the company a massive boost in profits. Vivek believes ESGs are just another manipulation technique to make corporations seem like they’re pushing diversity and environmentally friendly programs, but in reality, are only hiring based on skin tone and sexual orientation and either donating a meager amount of money to an environmental or social program to say, “Look, buyers! We do care about X group of people or Y climate initiative.” And this is Vivek’s definition of “woke capitalism”. Where corporations implement surface-level DEI and ESG initiatives to convince the “woke mob” that they care about said movement and manipulate consumers to buy their products.

To be fair, I think there is some level of validity to his concerns (in terms of corporations’ virtue signaling). Corporations will do whatever they can to maximize their profits. For me personally, it always feels a bit disingenuous when a corporation or a person has to flaunt that they donated or participated in a non-profit activity to prove they want to make the world a better place. To me and Vivek, it seems like a transaction more than actually providing an ethical service.

But here’s where I become critical of Vivek’s attack on wokeness. Because looking at the copyright date, this book was published in 2021. His entire focus in the book was “wokeness” will be the reason our democracy will be at risk because corporations will bend the knee to the woke mob. And these corporations will sacrifice true capitalism (whatever that means) for woke capitalism and any corporations that don’t fall in line with wokeness will be blacklisted and ostracized by the mob.

Well…. it’s 2025 and based on the past two months, it seems like the risk to our democracy is on the opposite side of the spectrum politically from wokeness. I can understand where Vivek was coming from with the woke mob because to be fair there were definitely examples of people who have lost their livelihoods from saying the wrong thing and weren’t given the opportunity to make amends for their naivete.	I think that’s a fair judgment, but wokeness was never going to put our democracy at risk. We’re now at a time where the far-right and authoritative regime that Vivek is still currently supporting is putting American democracy at risk. I never recall the “woke mob” illegally sending permanent residents and immigrants with green cards to a foreign prison. I don’t recall the “woke mob” blatantly ignoring federal judges’ orders. I don’t recall the “woke mob” illegally firing thousands upon thousands of federal workers because their jobs are seen as “wasteful”. I don’t recall the “woke mob” backing a dictator who invaded a sovereign nation.  I would love to see how Vivek Ramaswamy would revise this book if he wrote a 2nd Edition now that he has experienced what a real attack on American democracy looks like.
