# “Startup CXO: A Field Guide to Scaling Up Your Company’s Critical Functions and Teams” by Matt Blumberg

***Completed Reading June 6th 2025***

As the title suggests, this book focuses primarily on the executive team in a startup/scaleup. From personal experience working at startup and scaleup companies, being scrappy and nimble seems to be the approach to staying competitive. But there are so many times when there is a lack of expertise in a certain facet of the company (e.g. how do we market the existing product out to more applicable customers? How do we know if our existing customer base is actively using our product? What’s our burn-rate/revenue/profits/EBITDA?) This book provides advice and suggestions from executives in their respective fields.

So these are the executive roles presented in this book:

- Chief Financial Officer: Management of the company’s finances
- Chief People Officer: Oversees the culture and employee’s sentiments in the company
- Chief Marketing Officer: How to gain market capital
- Chief Revenue Officer: Scaling and managing the sales operations
- Chief Business Development Officer: Building influence inside and outside of the company
- Chief Customer Officer: Handles improving and growing customer engagement
- Chief Product Officer: Manages the products being provided to the market
- Chief Technology Officer: Architect the tech for the products
- Chief Privacy Officer: Ensure company isn’t breaking laws and data is secure
- Chief Operating Officer: The second-in-command behind the CEO

I also like the fact that the book dives into what the fractional CXO would look like for each of the different executive roles. I heard of fractional roles before but didn’t have much insight into how it work and why a company would hire a fractional CXO over just a full-time person.

Just one caution with this book though. Even though each CXO section is from people who are incredibly experienced in their roles, most of them worked at Return Path for quite a bit of time. In my opinion that doesn’t dampen the information provided in their respective sections, but some readers might be a bit perturbed by that. Other than that if you’re planning on starting a business and/or working at a startup/scaleup, this is a solid read to learn about different CXOs!
