# “Lies My Teacher Told Me: Everything Your American History Textbook Got Wrong” By James W. Loewen

***Completed reading July 27th 2025***

Let’s be honest… history class in school was pretty boring. I vividly remember having to memorize a bunch of terms related to the time period in history the chapter covered, then regurgitate the definitions once I had to take a test. Then, after I finished the test, I would completely forget what I had learned in that chapter to prepare for the next test on the next chapter. But one of this book’s main takeaways is much worse in terms of properly teaching students about American History.

James Loewen dives into how authors and publishers of these school books cleanse the unfavorable and gritty occurrences in American history to “make everyone happy”. To elaborate, events like Columbus’s detrimental attacks on Haiti and Native Americans, all presidents before Lincoln's ownership of slaves, Puritans/European Settlers raids/capture of Native American lands, etc, are non-existent in a lot of history textbooks due to “not wanting to make these previous key figures or American societies look bad”.

Two terms I think encompass the portrayal of American history are sasha (living-dead) and zamani (dead). Sasha is the recently departed whose time on earth overlapped with people still here. When the last person to know an ancestor dies, that ancestor leaves the sasha for the zamani. The Depiction of America has been, is, and will be about America being the best country to ever exist. And for that ostensible depiction to remain upheld, recent events (the sasha) that put America in a bad light have to be watered down to keep the illusion that America is great. So, for example, immediately after the Vietnam War ended, most Americans were pretty adamantly against the war. But history textbooks in the 1980s and 1990s wouldn’t bring up the atrocities of what happened in Vietnam to the Vietnamese people and their land (the constant bombing, Vietnamese people being assaulted by American/Vietnamese soldiers, images of children running from white phosphorus smoke). The history textbooks wouldn’t bring up how much the American people were against John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson, and Richard Nixon on the Vietnam War. But as we moved into the 2010s (the zamani), more events about the horrors of the Vietnam War were presented in American history books. There still needs to be more transparency about the Vietnam War, but it’s more than there was a generation ago.

Here’s where I go into a rant. Reading this book has made me even more stern about America doing our children and citizens a massive disservice by excluding so many crucial facts about American history, and also making the subject so milquetoast. As James constantly brings up, American history is not a static topic that has one right answer at a particular point in history. History should be very idiosyncratic with data points and facts portraying why what a reader has learned from history makes them perceive the current world.

As an African American, it absolutely infuriates me that our history is being “revised” to fit in what Trump and this administration think is appropriate for Americans to know about. It’s even more prevalent than ever that learning American history (even the events that make people feel uncomfortable) is so crucial for the progression of our country. Not enough people understand that these events (and many more):
1. Massive Resistance to 1861 Reconstruction
    1. Black Wall Street (Tulsa Race Massacre of 1921)
    2. Rosewood, Florida – 1923
    3. Wilmington, North Carolina – 1898
    4. Elaine, Arkansas – 1919
    5. Ocoee, Florida – 1920
    6. Colfax, Louisiana – 1873
    7. East St. Louis, Illinois – 1917
2. The Tuskegee Experiment
3. Redlining
4. The War on Drugs
5. Three Strike Rule

have impacted the potential prosperity of Black people in America. When I hear people like Ben Shapiro, Candace Owens, and Charlie Kirk say that “DEI programs and affirmative actions are unfair”, that means they don’t understand that past events like these that handicapped black people’s opportunities for success impact the community today. So, for a traditionally used analogy for opportunities at birth, let’s say from a statistical and overall standpoint, we have a track race for a 400M dash. We have a white vs. black American. The white and black Americans aren’t starting at the same point. The black American is 100M further back from his opponent, has ankle weights, and is told they have hurdles in their lane.

So when we leave history classes, we’re told, “You’ll be successful if you work hard enough. We live in a meritocracy”. Completely leaving out generational wealth, the disadvantages of living in an unstable non-two-parent household, the biases people in and outside of America have about black people, and not seeing enough black people in STEM professions due to our ancestors being excluded from being admitted to higher education schools. This all impacts not only how black people can succeed in America, but also how they perceive themselves. When we leave those classes, we don’t think, “the system has really hindered our progress for DECADES”. We think, “What is wrong with me and my people?”. We put the oneous entirely on ourselves when in reality, we’ve been fighting an uphill battle since our ancestors came off those boats.

I’ll end on this. We as a people have as much potential to do great things as any other race. It’s been shown through inventions (https://tinyurl.com/4h964kww), sports, politicians (https://tinyurl.com/346hfrum), and in academics (https://tinyurl.com/mrx4amd5). History, given the correct way, shines a massive light on how African Americans had all the resources and opportunities to succeed, and it was constantly throttled by racism, bigotry, and violence…. This is why true American history (and I do mean all the insavory parts too) is crucial for our society as a whole to truly be a successful democracy. This book has taught me the difference between being a patriot and being a nationalist. A nationalist will piously believe America can do no wrong, and being critical of America is seen as un-American. A patriot is critical of America because they want America to constantly improve. And the only way to improve is to understand where the faults are.
