# “Hardball: Are You Playing to Play or Playing to Win?” by George Stalk and Rob Lachenauer

***Completed Reading August 14th 2025***

To be honest, when I initially picked up this book, I thought it was the story about the statistician who found data patterns in baseball to place bets with the highest probability of winning. Then I started reading the preface of the book and realized it was a different kind of game in the realm of business.

Hardball is about how businesses can gain and keep their competitive edges over their opponents in any market. There are multiple strategies George and Rob mention in this book (e.g. price out your competition, M&A, finding anomalies in data, etc...)

When I initially read the first chapter, I was skeptical about where this book was going. Since reading hundreds of books for the past decade, I can sense when a book will provide generic platitudes that a business/financial “guru” on TikTok or YouTube will give to their audience, and has the ostensible allure of seeming like groundbreaking information. This type of content is too nauseating and preachy for my tastes.

But I was pleasantly surprised as I read more of the book, especially when the authors equate how businesses like Ford, Wal-Mart, and Frito-Lay use those strategies to gain their competitive advantages. And he also provides examples of businesses that used softball strategies (e.g. lazy marketing, copying a competitor but missing the heart, underhanded tactics that could get the business sued), which inevitably led to their business losing market share or going bankrupt.

And what’s really fascinating about this book is that it was published in 2004, and the authors constantly reference the giants of their respective industries, such as Ford, GMC, Wal-Mart, Home Depot, etc. And fast forward to today, and today’s giants are all heavily tech-driven. The authors even alluded that the “toppler” of Wal-Mart would potentially be a company that moves the shopping experience to the internet. It turns out that Toppler was Amazon. It’ll be very interesting to see what the new giants of the market will be 20 years from now.
