# “Poverty and the Myths of Health Care Reform” by Richard (Buz) Cooper, MD

***Completed Reading October 4th 2025***

I initially assumed, before reading this book, that most of our governmental policy makers incorporated poverty into their analysis of why healthcare in America is so porous. But it seems like poverty wasn’t and still isn’t a variable in the equation for trying to reduce the cost of health care in the country. The creators of the Dartmouth Atlas study (which the government has utilized as the key driver for governmental acts and policies around resolving overspending in healthcare) claim that the source of 30% of overspending in healthcare is due to waste and inefficiency. In the 1990s, due to this study, these people also claimed that America would have an abundance of physicians in the following decades. This book explains in detail why these creators and policymakers were incorrect in their assessment.

Dr. Cooper focuses the first three chapters on the cities of Milwaukee, Los Angeles, Boston, and New Haven, and how the socioeconomic differences in certain counties in a state compare to the level of utilization of healthcare resources the residents of those counties use. Dr. Cooper correlates the zip codes of certain neighborhoods with the quality of care and frequency of hospital admissions. Not surprisingly, his team found that the neighborhood with a higher socioeconomic status was admitted to their local medical facilities at a lower rate than the lower socioeconomic neighborhoods, and their hospitals had better quality care.

One thing I did find that was fascinating was that America has poverty throughout the nation, but depending on where a poor family lives impacts the type of care they have access to. So, for example, if a poor family lives in a poor state that doesn’t invest as much into their state’s health system, this family will find it difficult to find a physician (let alone a specialized doctor) to care for their chronic illnesses, and the hospital will be more likely to have out-of-date or insufficient equipment and supplies. If that same poor family were in a more affluent state, the care would be substantially better with more physicians available. And due to the Emergency Medical Treatment and Labor Act passed by Congress in 1986, hospitals are not allowed to refuse patients in need of emergency care, so hospitals that at least have state funding to keep them afloat when uninsured patients can’t pay for care will be more likely to stay open, versus states that don’t provide as many resources.

So, coming back to the Dartmouth Atlas study, due to politicians following the advice that fighting waste and inefficiency within medical facilities was the best approach to fighting medical costs, our policies and regulations have been geared towards that root cause analysis. The “Hospital Readmissions Reduction Program” is an example of an implementation that was born from the “waste and inefficiency” perspective that caused more harm than good. Essentially, when the program was started in 2013, Medicare reimbursements to hospitals with excessive readmissions were cut by up to 1% and the maximum penalty was scheduled to increase to 3% over the next two years. This doesn’t seem like much, but when hospitals are on razor-thin margins, a couple of percentage points ding to their finances can do massive damage to their bottom lines. As mentioned before, these policies didn’t incorporate poverty as a factor in why hospitals were spending more compared to others. So hospitals in neighborhoods in the lower quintiles of socioeconomic status would get dinged at a higher rate than hospitals in the upper quintiles, which spirals into vicissitudes that could lead to hospitals closing in already medically impoverished areas.

One of the best policies to actually attack poverty and healthcare together was ObamaCare. ObamaCare provided health insurance and expansion of Medicaid eligibility for individuals with incomes up to 138% of the federal poverty level. ObamaCare covered multiple services, such as hospitalization, doctor’s visits, prescription drugs, cancer screenings, immunizations, and contraceptives. ObamaCare prevents insurance companies from denying coverage or charging higher premiums based on pre-existing conditions or gender. ObamaCare requires health insurance plans to cover mental health and substance use disorder services.

All these benefits of ObamaCare (a.k.a Affordable Care Act) ensure, in most cases, that people in poverty will have adequate health care without having to worry about upfront or after-cost. It might seem like an oxymoron that ObamaCare has actually slowed spending, but studies make it clear that yearly spending growth generally has been slow by historical standards since ObamaCare’s passage. Now I have to make it clear that correlation does not mean causation, and this case isn’t any different. But it seems like policies that actually help poverty victims get out of their predicaments have a strong correlation with healthcare spending for all, decreasing (which is the entire message of this book).

I’ll end on this. Our current administration will most likely exacerbate this problem due to their dramatic downsizing of programs such as Medicaid, ACA, SNAP, WIC, and IEP, which will hurt the poverty-stricken population the most. As this book has covered extensively, the way to reduce our medical costs (which makes up 17.6% of America’s GDP) is to get more people out of poverty. Let me ask you: What policy has the Trump administration passed this year that has benefited the poor or middle-class America?
