# “Plunder: Private Equity’s Plan to Pillage America” By Brendan Ballou

***Completed Reading December 17th 2025***

American capitalism has been a bane on our society for the average American. Ever since the late 1980s, the gap between American median wages and inflations gradually increased, most Americans younger than 40 can’t afford their first home, and layoffs have been commonplace. Loyalty to a corporation is sadly nonexistent due to union busting, at-will employment clauses, and layoffs being on the marquee whenever a corporation needs to do a “restructuring.” Now take all this, and turn it up to 11 for how most private equity operates.

If corporate practices are like roof leaks, private equity’s practices are black mold-infested in the foundation of the home. Brendan explains much more in detail about these scummy practices, but in a nutshell, most private equity’s acquire a business, squeeze as much money as they possibly can from the business (via dividend recapitalizations, sale-leasebacks, advisory/management fees, etc), then after a certain amount of time, usually seven years, they either sell the company or if the debt is overwhelming, they force the company to go bankrupt.

You might be asking, “If they saddle these companies with so much debt, aren’t the private equity firms responsible for paying that debt off?” Well, that’s the beauty (or horror for most Americans) of how private equity companies set themselves up to receive most of the rewards and limit the liabilities with these three simple steps:
1. Use sovereign wealth funds, high-net-worth individuals, banks, and/or pension funds to buy companies.
2. As mentioned before, use sleazy and sordid practices to retrieve as much money as possible, no matter how the bought business performs
3. Since the private equity is an “external party” in the relationship with the bought business, the debt is the responsibility of the business, not the private equity. So, private equity has a legal loophole to avoid financial responsibility.

And to add to this disgusting process, private equity can use carried interest loopholes, which allow the money private equity makes not be taxed like income. It is considered capital gains, which has a significantly lower tax rate than income taxes.

Just look up how these major private equity players ruined these companies:
- Blackstone -> Southern Cross Healthcare
- Carlyle Group -> ManorCare
- KKR -> Toys R Us
- Hellman & Friedman -> Nielsen
- Clayton, Dubilier & Rice (CD&R) -> Kmart/Sears and Hertz

Let’s turn the gloom into hope, because this can be rectified with the arms of government properly policing these bad practices. For example, during the Obama presidency:

1. Department of Labor made the “Fiduciary Rule” which required anyone advising retirement accounts (401(k)s, IRAs) to act in the best interest of the client (sadly rescinded during Trump’s first term
2. SEC instituted the Dodd-Frank Pay Ratio Rule, which required public companies to disclose CEO pay, median worker pay, and pay ratio (which was gutted by the Trump administration)
3. SEC instituted  exams on Private Equity Fee Transparency, which would target any fee private equity charged to the companies they bought (which the Trump administration dramatically slowed down)
4. Attempted to pass “Stop Wall Street Looting”, but sadly was blocked by Congress
5. DOJ became stricter with Bankruptcy & Creditor Protections, which allowed for stronger worker claims, pension protections, and limited sponsor protections in bankruptcy (the DOJ under Trump was a lot more hands-off)
6. Attempted to end carried interest tax treatment, but the bill never passed Congress.

Coming back to the 4th point on the list, the “Stop Wall Street Looting Act” (introduced by Elizabeth Warren and her fellow colleagues) is probably the most comprehensive bill that can dramatically restrict a lot of the malicious practices done by these private equity firms. But sadly, the bill hasn’t passed Congress (yet).

This is exactly why VOTING and being knowledgable about your representatives is so crucial.  Obama was president almost a decade ago, and just look at all the actions that could have happened to police private equity. Even under the Biden administration, especially with the FTC chair Lina Khan, there were strides to fight back against corporate greed. Our society of mass layoffs, carried interest loopholes, capital gains loopholes, and tax evasion by massive corporations doesn’t have to be this way. We, the people, have the power to change our society. And it is done via voting and protesting.
