# “Fire Your Boss: Discover Work You Love without Quitting your Job” by Aaron McHugh

***Completed Reading January 3rd 2026***

This was an... interesting book. Not thought-provoking interesting, but an underwhelming type of interesting. I think when I first read the title of the book, I thought it was gonna be more focused on influencing your direct superior and even your boss’s boss, but the book was more self-empowerment focused. Which I don’t necessarily have an issue with, but this book comes off a bit more farcical than I think the author intended. Let me explain

So Aaron brings up his own personal experience of being deeply depressed and anxiety-driven by his job to the point where he neglected his family to excel in his role. Then one day, outside of his office space, when he was going through a typical disagreement with his boss, he came upon an epiphany to just “fire his boss”.  Essentially, he would go through a multi-year endeavor to change his mindset about work and incorporate more balance into his personal life. And this is where my concerns about the book arise.

Many of the activities Aaron did to reduce stress and find himself can only be accomplished if you’re well-off. So, for example, when he needs an elongated break away from work to decompress, he can take 1-2 months off from work and travel around the world to do hikes, fly fishing, and other affluent activities. The way Aaron comes off is not relatable to the average American, especially people who are not in a management or higher role with that kind of flexibility. Plus, there are points in the book that elicited a visceral reaction from me or an eyeroll, because it just sounds like typical self-help guru talk you’ll hear from Brené Brown or Tony Robbins.

There’s a way to get the message across of “finding time for yourself” without it coming off as unrelatable. As a reader, I felt Aaron missed the mark with this book.
