# "The Need to be Whole: Patriotism and the History of Prejudice" by Wendell Berry

***Couldn't finish***

Ok… I guess this is the second book in a row that I am incredibly underwhelmed. So much so that after reading halfway through the “Sins” chapter, I just stopped reading and felt little desire to continue reading this book. One of my biggest pet peeves when I read a non-fiction book or listen to an essayist, commentator, or interlocutor is when said person makes grandiose claims but provides little to no evidence to back said claims. I really tried to give this book a chance even after the “Degrees of Prejudice” chapter, but Wendall continued to make loaded claims surrounded by diatribe ramblings with little to no substance behind what he was saying.

When I was reading the earlier chapters of this book, my spidey senses were tingling when he kept mentioning his experience as a child with black people wasn’t as negative as the typical stories throughout history. Wendall grew up in a rural town in Kentucky, where (he’s recounting from his parents and grandparents) there was a division between pro-Union and pro-Confederate groups of people. So much so that these militia groups would invade citizens’ houses, “confirm” their allegiance, and if the group felt that they weren’t a true affiliate, they would steal and imprison said citizens. During Wendell’s childhood, he felt black people in his town weren’t discriminated against, because they would joke around with white people and would work on farms as equals.

For me, it just felt weird and a bit disingenuous for Wendall to spend an entire chapter on black people he knew and how they felt like family to him, as if to say, “not all white people were racist”. I completely get where he’s coming from, but it felt like he was dismissing the rampant racism and discrimination that existed during the late 1800s and early 1900s for black people. I honestly don’t know what message he was trying to send to the reader or what his end goal was in mentioning this to the reader.

Even so, I still read through the book, because I thought maybe there was a payoff to why he mentioned his relationship with black people. After all, based on the preface of the book, it seems like Wendell wanted to focus on how farming in rural America has been overlooked and slowly being decimated by mega conglomerates. But the “Sins” chapter really depleted the desire to continue reading this book…

For one, Wendell is clearly a Christian. Which I have no problem with, but if you’re going to reference the Bible as the source of moral judgment or truth in your message, then you need to do more than just say, “The Ten Commandments say this, so our society should mirror these commandments”. I find it almost laughable that he mentions people not working on the Sabbath day, but never mentions Exodus 31:14: “Ye shall keep the sabbath therefore; for it is holy unto you: every one that defileth it shall surely be put to death: for whosoever doeth any work therein, that soul shall be cut off from among his people.” Or in the 5th commandment, kids should respect their parents, but then Wendell doesn’t mention Deuteronomy 21:18-21:

- 18 If a man have a stubborn and rebellious son, which will not obey the voice of his father, or the voice of his mother, and that, when they have chastened him, will not hearken unto them:
- 19 Then shall his father and his mother lay hold on him, and bring him out unto the elders of his city, and unto the gate of his place;
- 20 And they shall say unto the elders of his city, This our son is stubborn and rebellious, he will not obey our voice; he is a glutton, and a drunkard.
- 21 And all the men of his city shall stone him with stones, that he die: so shalt thou put evil away from among you; and all Israel shall hear, and fear.

The nail that broke the camel’s back for me was his explanation of the “Chain of Being”. In a succinct description, the Chain of Being is the hierarchy of connections from God -> angels -> humans -> animals. Human beings cannot be superhuman (like angels) or subhuman (like animals), but can be inhuman (having little to no connection to human life). I still don’t know what his purpose was in mentioning this in this chapter, because, again, Wendell was rambling. However, from a biological and evolutionary standpoint, humans are animals. Humans are literally one chromosome away from being chimpanzees. If you go far enough back in the genealogical lineage, all living organisms share a common ancestor. And speaking about the hierarchy of angels and God, there’s no proof that these higher powers exist. As the late Christopher Hitchens used to say, “Extraordinary claims require extraordinary evidence”, and Wendell ostensibly speaks in absolutes which are nothing more than verisimilitudes.

I couldn’t force myself to read this book anymore because it reads more like a sermon than an actual thought-provoking edifice. Maybe someone more religious than I might find value in this book, but I couldn’t waste any more of my time reading a book that I felt brought little to no value to me anymore.
